=== ABRAHAM LINCOLN SPEECHES ===
Title: Speeches & Letters of Abraham Lincoln, 1832-1865
Release date: January 17, 2005 [eBook #14721]Most recently updated: October 28, 2024
Credits: E-text prepared by Melanie Lybarger, Suzanne Lybarger, and the Project Gutenberg Online Distributed Proofreading Team
The Project Gutenberg eBook, Speeches and Letters of Abraham Lincoln,
1832-1865, by Abraham Lincoln, Edited by Merwin Roe
No man since Washington has become to Americans so familiar or so
beloved a figure as Abraham Lincoln. He is to them the representative
and typical American, the man who best embodies the political ideals of
the nation. He is typical in the fact that he sprang from the masses of
the people, that he remained through his whole career a man of the
people, that his chief desire was to be in accord with the beliefs and
wishes of the people, that he never failed to trust in the people and to
rely on their support. Every native American knows his life and his
speeches. His anecdotes and witticisms have passed into the thought and
the conversation of the whole nation as those of no other statesman have
done.
He belongs, however, not only to the United States, but to the whole of
civilized mankind. It is no exaggeration to say that he has, within the
last thirty years, grown to be a conspicuous figure in the history of
the modern world. Without him, the course of events not only in the
Western hemisphere but in Europe also would have been different, for he
was called to guide at the greatest crisis of its fate a State already
mighty, and now far more mighty than in his days, and the guidance he
gave has affected the march of events ever since. A life and a character
such as his ought to be known to and comprehended by Europeans as well
as by Americans. Among Europeans, it is especially Englishmen who ought
to appreciate him and understand the significance of his life, for he
came of an English stock, he spoke the English tongue, his action told
upon the progress of events and the shaping of opinion in all British
communities everywhere more than it has done upon any other nation
outside America itself.
This collection of Lincoln's speeches seeks to make him known by
his words as readers of history know him by his deeds. In
popularly-governed countries the great statesman is almost of necessity
an orator, though his eminence as a speaker may be no true measure
either of his momentary power or of his permanent fame, for wisdom,
courage and tact bear little direct relation to the gift for speech. But
whether that gift be present in greater or in lesser degree, the
character and ideas of a statesman are best studied through his own
words. This is particularly true of Lincoln, because he was not what may
be called a professional orator. There have been famous orators whose
speeches we may read for the beauty of their language or for the wealth
of ideas they contain, with comparatively little regard to the
circumstances of time and place that led to their being delivered.
Lincoln is not one of these. His speeches need to be studied in close
relation to the occasions which called them forth. They are not
philosophical lucubrations or brilliant displays of rhetoric. They are a
part of his life. They are the expression of his convictions, and derive
no small part of their weight and dignity from the fact that they deal
with grave and urgent questions, and express the spirit in which he
approached those questions. Few great characters stand out so clearly
revealed by their words, whether spoken or written, as he does.
Accordingly Lincoln's discourses are not like those of nearly all the
men whose eloquence has won them fame. When we think of such men as
Pericles, Demosthenes, Æschines, Cicero, Hortensius, Burke, Sheridan,
Erskine, Canning, Webster, Gladstone, Bright, Massillon, Vergniaud,
Castelar, we think of exuberance of ideas or of phrases, of a command of
appropriate similes or metaphors, of the gifts of invention and of
exposition, of imaginative flights, or outbursts of passion fit to stir
and rouse an audience to like passion. We think of the orator as gifted
with a powerful or finely-modulated voice, an imposing presence, a
graceful delivery. Or if—remembering that Lincoln was by profession a
lawyer and practised until he became President of the United States—we
think of the special gifts which mark the forensic orator, we should
expect to find a man full of ingenuity and subtlety, one dexterous in
handling his case in such wise as to please and capture the judge or the
jury whom he addresses, one skilled in those rhetorical devices and
strokes of art which can be used, when need be, to engage the listener's
feelings and distract his mind from the real merits of the issue.
Of all this kind of talent there was in Lincoln but little. He was not
an artful pleader; indeed, it was said of him that he could argue well
only those cases in the justice of which he personally believed, and was
unable to make the worse appear the better reason. For most of the
qualities which the world admires in Cicero or in Burke we should look
in vain in Lincoln's speeches. They are not fine pieces of exquisite
diction, fit to be declaimed as school exercises or set before students
as models of composition.
What, then, are their merits? and why do they deserve to be valued and
remembered? How comes it that a man of first-rate powers was deficient
in qualities appertaining to his own profession which men less
remarkable have possessed?
To answer this question, let us first ask what were the preparation and
training Abraham Lincoln had for oratory, whether political or forensic.
Born in rude and abject poverty, he had never any education, except what
he gave himself, till he was approaching manhood. Not even books
wherewith to inform and train his mind were within his reach. No school,
no university, no legal faculty had any part in training his powers.
When he became a lawyer and a politician, the years most favourable to
continuous study had already passed, and the opportunities he found for
reading were very scanty. He knew but few authors in general literature,
though he knew those few thoroughly. He taught himself a little
mathematics, but he could read no language save his own, and can have
had only the faintest acquaintance with European history or with any
branch of philosophy.
The want of regular education was not made up for by the persons among
whom his lot was cast. Till he was a grown man, he never moved in any
society from which he could learn those things with which the mind of an
orator or a statesman ought to be stored. Even after he had gained some
legal practice, there was for many years no one for him to mix with
except the petty practitioners of a petty town, men nearly all of whom
knew little more than he did himself.
Schools gave him nothing, and society gave him nothing. But he had a
powerful intellect and a resolute will. Isolation fostered not only
self-reliance but the habit of reflection, and, indeed, of prolonged and
intense reflection. He made all that he knew a part of himself. He
thought everything out for himself. His convictions were his own—clear
and coherent. He was not positive or opinionated, and he did not deny
that at certain moments he pondered and hesitated long before he decided
on his course. But though he could keep a policy in suspense, waiting
for events to guide him, he did not waver. He paused and reconsidered,
but it was never his way either to go back upon a decision once made, or
to waste time in vain regrets that all he expected had not been
attained. He took advice readily, and left many things to his ministers;
but he did not lean upon his advisers. Without vanity or ostentation, he
was always independent, self-contained, prepared to take full
responsibility for his acts.
That he was keenly observant of all that passed under his eyes, that his
mind played freely round everything it touched, we know from the
accounts of his talk, which first made him famous in the town and
neighbourhood where he lived. His humour, and his memory for anecdotes
which he could bring out to good purpose, at the right moment, are
qualities which Europe deems distinctively American, but no great man of
action in the nineteenth century, even in America, possessed them in the
same measure. Seldom has so acute a power of observation been found
united to so abundant a power of sympathy.
These remarks may seem to belong to a study of his character rather than
of his speeches, yet they are not irrelevant, because the interest of
his speeches lies in their revelation of his character. Let us, however,
return to the speeches and to the letters, some of which, given in this
volume, are scarcely less noteworthy than are the speeches.
What are the distinctive merits of these speeches and letters? There is
less humour in them than his reputation as a humorist would have led us
to expect. They are serious, grave, practical. We feel that the man does
not care to play over the surface of the subject, or to use it as a way
of displaying his cleverness. He is trying to get right down to the very
foundation of the matter and tell us what his real thoughts about it
are. In this respect he sometimes reminds us of Bismarck's speeches,
which, in their rude, broken, forth-darting way, always go straight to
their destined aim; always hit the nail on the head. So too, in their
effort to grapple with fundamental facts, Lincoln's bear a sort of
likeness to Cromwell's speeches, though Cromwell has far less power of
utterance, and always seems to be wrestling with the difficulty of
finding language to convey to others what is plain, true and weighty to
himself. This difficulty makes the great Protector, though we can
usually see what he is driving at, frequently confused and obscure.
Lincoln, however, is always clear. Simplicity, directness and breadth
are the notes of his thought. Aptness, clearness, and again, simplicity,
are the notes of his diction. The American speakers of his generation,
like most of those of the preceding generation, but unlike those of that
earlier generation to which Alexander Hamilton, John Adams, Marshall and
Madison belonged, were generally infected by a floridity which made them
a by-word in Europe. Even men of brilliant talent, such as Edward
Everett, were by no means free from this straining after effect by
highly-coloured phrases and theatrical effects. Such faults have to-day
virtually vanished from the United States, largely from a change in
public taste, to which perhaps the example set by Lincoln himself may
have contributed. In the forties and fifties florid rhetoric was
rampant, especially in the West and South, where taste was less polished
than in the older States. That Lincoln escaped it is a striking mark of
his independence as well as of his greatness. There is no superfluous
ornament in his orations, nothing tawdry, nothing otiose. For the most
part, he addresses the reason of his hearers, and credits them with
desiring to have none but solid arguments laid before them. When he does
appeal to emotion, he does it quietly, perhaps even solemnly. The note
struck is always a high note. The impressiveness of the appeal comes not
from fervid vehemence of language, but from the sincerity of his own
convictions. Sometimes one can see that through its whole course the
argument is suffused by the speaker's feeling, and when the time comes
for the feeling to be directly expressed, it glows not with fitful
flashes, but with the steady heat of an intense and strenuous soul.
The impression which most of the speeches leave on the reader is that
their matter has been carefully thought over even when the words have
not been learnt by heart. But there is an anecdote that on one occasion,
early in his career, Lincoln went to a public meeting not in the least
intending to speak, but presently being called for by the audience, rose
in obedience to the call, and delivered a long address so ardent and
thrilling that the reporters dropped their pencils and, absorbed in
watching him, forgot to take down what he said. It has also been stated,
on good authority, that on his way in the railroad cars, to the
dedication of the monument on the field of Gettysburg, he turned to a
Pennsylvanian gentleman who was sitting beside him and remarked, "I
suppose I shall be expected to say something this afternoon; lend me a
pencil and a bit of paper," and that he thereupon jotted down the notes
of a speech which has become the best known and best remembered of all
his utterances, so that some of its words and sentences have passed into
the minds of all educated men everywhere.
That famous Gettysburg speech is the best example one could desire of
the characteristic quality of Lincoln's eloquence. It is a short speech.
It is wonderfully terse in expression. It is quiet, so quiet that at the
moment it did not make upon the audience, an audience wrought up by a
long and highly-decorated harangue from one of the prominent orators of
the day, an impression at all commensurate to that which it began to
make as soon as it was read over America and Europe. There is in it not
a touch of what we call rhetoric, or of any striving after effect. Alike
in thought and in language it is simple, plain, direct. But it states
certain truths and principles in phrases so aptly chosen and so
forcible, that one feels as if those truths could have been conveyed in
no other words, and as if this deliverance of them were made for all
time. Words so simple and so strong could have come only from one who
had meditated so long upon the primal facts of American history and
popular government that the truths those facts taught him had become
like the truths of mathematics in their clearness, their breadth, and
their precision.
The speeches on Slavery read strange to us now, when slavery as a living
system has been dead for forty years, dead and buried hell deep under
the detestation of mankind. It is hard for those whose memory does not
go back to 1865 to realize that down till then it was not only a
terrible fact, but was defended—defended by many otherwise good men,
defended not only by pseudo-scientific anthropologists as being in the
order of nature, but by ministers of the Gospel, out of the sacred
Scriptures, as part of the ordinances of God. Lincoln's position, the
position of one who had to induce slave-owning fellow-citizens to listen
to him and admit persuasion into their heated and prejudiced minds, did
not allow him to denounce it with horror, as we can all so easily do
to-day. But though his language is calm and restrained, he never
condescends to palter with slavery. He shows its innate evils and
dangers with unanswerable force. The speech on the Dred Scott decision
is a lucid, close and cogent piece of reasoning which, in its wide view
of Constitutional issues, sometimes reminds one of Webster, sometimes
even of Burke, though it does not equal the former in weight nor the
latter in splendour of diction.
Among the letters, perhaps the most impressive is that written to Mrs.
Bixley, the mother of five sons who had died fighting for the Union in
the armies of the North. It is short, and it deals with a theme on which
hundreds of letters are written daily. But I do not know where the
nobility of self-sacrifice for a great cause, and of the consolation
which the thought of a sacrifice so made should bring, is set forth with
such simple and pathetic beauty. Deep must be the fountains from which
there issues so pure a stream.
The career of Lincoln is often held up to ambitious young Americans as
an example to show what a man may achieve by his native strength, with
no advantages of birth or environment or education. In this there is
nothing improper, nothing fanciful. The moral is one which may well be
drawn, and in which those on whose early life Fortune has not smiled may
find encouragement. But the example is, after all, no great
encouragement to ordinary men, for Lincoln was an extraordinary man.
He triumphed over the adverse conditions of his early years because
Nature had bestowed on him high and rare powers. Superficial observers
who saw his homely aspect and plain manners, and noted that his
fellow-townsmen, when asked why they so trusted him, answered that it
was for his common-sense, failed to see that his common-sense was a part
of his genius. What is common-sense but the power of seeing the
fundamentals of any practical question, and of disengaging them from the
accidental and transient features that may overlie these
fundamentals—the power, to use a familiar expression, of getting down
to bed rock? One part of this power is the faculty for perceiving what
the average man will think and can be induced to do. This is what keeps
the superior mind in touch with the ordinary mind, and this is perhaps
why the name of "common-sense" is used, because the superior mind seems
in its power of comprehending others to be itself a part of the general
sense of the community. All men of high practical capacity have this
power. It is the first condition of success. But in men who have
received a philosophical or literary education there is a tendency to
embellish, for purposes of persuasion, or perhaps for their own
gratification, the language in which they recommend their conclusions,
or to state those conclusions in the light of large general principles,
a tendency which may, unless carefully watched, carry them too high
above the heads of the crowd. Lincoln, never having had such an
education, spoke to the people as one of themselves. He seemed to be
saying not only what each felt, but expressing the feeling just as each
would have expressed it. In reality, he was quite as much above his
neighbours in insight as was the polished orator or writer, but the
plain directness of his language seemed to keep him on their level. His
strength lay less in the form and vesture of the thought than in the
thought itself, in the large, simple, practical view which he took of
the position. And thus, to repeat what has been said already, the
sterling merit of these speeches of his, that which made them effective
when they were delivered and makes them worth reading to-day, is to be
found in the justness of his conclusions and their fitness to the
circumstances of the time. When he rose into higher air, when his words
were clothed with stateliness and solemnity, it was the force of his
conviction and the emotion that thrilled through his utterance, that
printed the words deep upon the minds and drove them home to the hearts
of the people.
What is a great man? Common speech, which after all must be our guide to
the sense of the terms which the world uses, gives this name to many
sorts of men. How far greatness lies in the power and range of the
intellect, how far in the strength of the will, how far in elevation of
view and aim and purpose,—this is a question too large to be debated
here. But of Abraham Lincoln it may be truly said that in his greatness
all three elements were present. He had not the brilliance, either in
thought or word or act, that dazzles, nor the restless activity that
occasionally pushes to the front even persons with gifts not of the
first order. He was a patient, thoughtful, melancholy man, whose
intelligence, working sometimes slowly but always steadily and surely,
was capacious enough to embrace and vigorous enough to master the
incomparably difficult facts and problems he was called to deal with.
His executive talent showed itself not in sudden and startling strokes,
but in the calm serenity with which he formed his judgments and laid his
plans, in the undismayed firmness with which he adhered to them in the
face of popular clamour, of conflicting counsels from his advisers,
sometimes, even, of what others deemed all but hopeless failure. These
were the qualities needed in one who had to pilot the Republic through
the heaviest storm that had ever broken upon it. But the mainspring of
his power, and the truest evidence of his greatness, lay in the nobility
of his aims, in the fervour of his conviction, in the stainless
rectitude which guided his action and won for him the confidence of the
people. Without these things neither the vigour of his intellect nor the
firmness of his will would have availed.
There is a vulgar saying that all great men are unscrupulous. Of him it
may rather be said that the note of greatness we feel in his thinking
and his speech and his conduct had its source in the loftiness and
purity of his character. Lincoln's is one of the careers that refute
this imputation on human nature.
The following is a list of Lincoln's published works:
SELECTIONS.—Letters on Questions of National Policy, etc., 1863;
Dedicatory Speech of President Lincoln, etc., at the Consecration of
Gettysburg Cemetery, Nov. 19th, 1863, 1864; The Last Address of
President Lincoln to the American People, 1865; The Martyr's Monument,
1865; In Memoriam, 1865; Gems from A. Lincoln, 1865; The President's
Words, 1866; Emancipation Proclamation—Second Inaugural
Address—Gettysburg Speech, 1878; Two Inaugural Addresses and Gettysburg
Speech, 1889; The Gettysburg Speech and other Papers, with an essay on
Lincoln by J.R. Lowell (Riverside Literature Series, 32), 1888; The
Table Talk of Abraham Lincoln, ed. W.O. Stoddard, 1894; Political
Debates between Abraham Lincoln and Stephen A. Douglas in the celebrated
campaign of 1858 in Illinois, etc. Also the two great speeches of
Abraham Lincoln at Ohio in 1859, 1894; Political Speeches and Debates of
Abraham Lincoln and S.A. Douglas, 1854-1861, edited by A.T. Jones, 1895;
Lincoln, Passages from his Speeches and Letters, with Introduction by
R.W. Gilder, 1901.
COMPLETE EDITIONS OF WORKS, LETTERS, AND SPEECHES.—H.J. Raymond,
History of the Administration of Abraham Lincoln (Speeches, Letters,
etc.), 1864; Abraham Lincoln, Pen and Voice, being a Complete
Compilation of his Letters, Public Addresses, Messages to Congress, ed.
G.M. Van Buren, etc., 1890; Complete Works, ed. J.G. Nicolay and J. Hay,
2 vols., 1894; enlarged edition, with Introduction by R.W. Gilder, etc.,
1905, etc.; A. Lincoln's Speeches, compiled by L.E. Chittenden, 1895;
The Writings of A. Lincoln, ed. A.B. Lapsley, with an Introduction by
Theodore Roosevelt, and a life by Noah Brooks, etc. (Federal Edition),
1905; etc.
LIFE.—H.J. Raymond; The Life and Public Services of A.L., etc., with
Anecdotes and Personal Reminiscences, by F.B. Carpenter, 1865; J.H.
Barrett, 1865; J.G. Holland, 1866; W.H. Lamon, 1872; W.O. Stoddard,
1884; I.N. Arnold, 1885; J.G. Nicolay and J. Hay, 1890; Condensed
Edition, 1902; Recollections of President Lincoln and his
Administration, 1891; C.C. Coffin, 1893; J.T. Morse, 1893; J. Hay (The
Presidents of the United States), 1894; C.A. Dana, Lincoln and his
Cabinet, etc., 1896; J.H. Choate, 1900; Address delivered before the
Edinburgh Philosophical Institution, Nov. 13, 1900; I.M. Tarbell, 1900;
W.E. Curtis, The True Abraham Lincoln, 1903; J.H. Barrett, A. Lincoln
and his Presidency, 1904; J. Baldwin, 1904. A. Rothschild, Lincoln,
Master of Men, 1906; F.T. Hill, Lincoln the Lawyer, 1906.
Among those who have written short lives are: Mrs. H. Beecher Stowe,
D.W. Bartlett, C.G. Leland, J.C. Power, etc.
Lincoln's First Public Speech—From an Address to the People of Sangamon County, March 9, 1832
Letter to Col. Robert Allen, June 21, 1836
From a Letter Published in the Sangamon "Journal," June 13, 1836
From his Address before the Young Men's Lyceum of Springfield, Jan. 27, 1837
Letter to Mrs. O.H. Browning, Springfield, April 1, 1838
From a Political Debate, Springfield, Dec, 1839
Letter to W.G. Anderson, Lawrenceville, Ill., Oct. 31, 1840
Extract from a Letter to John T. Stuart, Springfield, Ill., Jan. 23, 1841
From his Address before the Springfield Washingtonian Temperance Society, Feb. 22, 1842
From a Circular of the Whig Committee, March 4, 1843
From a Letter to Martin M. Morris, Springfield, Ill., March 26, 1843
From a Letter to Joshua F. Speed, Springfield, Ill., Oct. 22, 1846
From a Letter to Wm. H. Herndon, Washington, Jan. 8, 1848
From a Letter to Wm. H. Herndon, Washington, June 22, 1848
From a Letter to Wm. H. Herndon, Washington, July 10, 1848
Letter to John D. Johnston, Shelbyville, Nov. 4, 1851
Note for Law Lecture—Written about July 1, 1850
From his Reply to Senator Douglas, Peoria, Oct. 16, 1854
From a Letter to the Hon. Geo. Robertson, Lexington, Ky.; Springfield, Ill., Aug. 15, 1855
From a Letter to Joshua F. Speed, Aug. 24, 1855
Speech on the Dred Scott Case, Springfield, Ill., June 26, 1857
The "Divided House" Speech, Springfield, Ill., June 17, 1858
From his Speech at Chicago in Reply to the Speech of Judge Douglas, July 10, 1858
From a Speech at Springfield, Ill., July 17, 1858
From Lincoln's Reply to Douglas in the First Joint Debate, Ottawa, Ill., Aug. 21, 1858
From Lincoln's Rejoinder to Judge Douglas at Freeport, Ill., Aug. 27, 1858
From Lincoln's Reply to Douglas at Jonesboro', Sept. 15, 1858
From Lincoln's Reply to Douglas at Charleston, Ill., Sept. 18, 1858
From Lincoln's Reply to Judge Douglas at Galesburg, Ill., Oct. 7, 1858
Notes for Speeches—Written about Oct. 1, 1858
From Lincoln's Reply to Douglas in the Seventh and Last Joint Debate, at Alton, Ill., Oct. 15, 1858
From Speech at Columbus, Ohio, Sept. 16, 1859
From Speech at Cincinnati, Ohio, Sept. 17, 1859
From a Letter to J.W. Fell, Dec. 20, 1859
From the Address at Cooper Institute, N.Y., Feb. 27, 1860
Lincoln's Farewell to the Citizens of Springfield, Ill., Feb. 11, 1861
Letter to Hon. Geo. Ashmun, Accepting the Nomination for Presidency, May 23, 1860
Letter to Miss Grace Bedell, Springfield, Ill., Oct. 19, 1860
From his Address to the Legislature at Indianapolis, Feb. 12, 1861
From his Address to the Legislature at Columbus, Ohio, Feb. 13, 1861
From his Remarks at Pittsburgh, Pa., Feb. 15, 1861
From his Address at Trenton, N.J., Feb. 21, 1861
Address in Independence Hall, Philadelphia, Feb. 22, 1861
His Reply to the Mayor of Washington, D.C., Feb. 27, 1861
From his First Message to Congress, at the Special Session, July 4, 1861
From his Message to Congress at its Regular Session, Dec. 3, 1861
Letter to Gen. G.B. McClellan, Washington, Feb. 3, 1862
Proclamation Revoking Gen. Hunter's Order Setting the Slaves Free, May 19, 1862
Appeal to the Border States in Behalf of Compensated Emancipation, July 12, 1862
From Letter to Cuthbert Bullitt, July 28, 1862
From his Reply to the Chicago Committee of United Religious Denominations, Sept. 13, 1862
From the Annual Message to Congress, Dec. 1, 1862
Letter to —— Moulton, Washington, July 31, 1863
Letter to Mrs. Lincoln, Washington, Aug. 8, 1863
Letter to James H. Hackett, Washington, Aug. 17, 1863
Note to Secretary Stanton, Washington, Nov. 11, 1863
Letter to James C. Conkling, Aug. 26, 1863
His Proclamation for a Day of Thanksgiving, Oct. 3, 1863
Remarks at the Dedication of the National Cemetery at Gettysburg, Nov. 19, 1863
From his Annual Message to Congress, Dec. 8, 1863
Letter to Secretary Stanton, Washington, March 1, 1864
Letter to Governor Michael Hahn, Washington, March 13, 1864
Address at a Sanitary Fair, March 18, 1864
Address at a Sanitary Fair at Baltimore, April 18, 1864
From Address to the 166th Ohio Regiment, Aug. 22, 1864
Letter to General Grant, Washington, Jan. 19, 1865
From an Address to an Indiana Regiment, March 17, 1865
For permission to use extracts from "The Complete Works of Abraham
Lincoln," edited by John G. Nicolay and John Hay, the Publishers wish to
thank The Century Company.
They also wish to thank Mr. William H. Lambert, the owner of the
copyright, and Mrs. Sarah A. Whitney for their courtesy in allowing them
to publish "Lincoln's Lost Speech."
Upon the subject of education, not presuming to dictate any plan or
system respecting it, I can only say that I view it as the most
important subject which we, as a people, can be engaged in. That every
man may receive at least a moderate education, and thereby be enabled to
read the histories of his own and other countries, by which he may duly
appreciate the value of our free institutions, appears to be an object
of vital importance, even on this account alone, to say nothing of the
advantages and satisfaction to be derived from all being able to read
the Scriptures and other works, both of a religious and moral nature,
for themselves.
For my part, I desire to see the time when education—and by its means
morality, sobriety, enterprise, and industry—shall become much more
general than at present; and should be gratified to have it in my power
to contribute something to the advancement of any measure which might
have a tendency to accelerate that happy period.
With regard to existing laws, some alterations are thought to be
necessary. Many respectable men have suggested that our estray laws—the
law respecting the issuing of executions, the road law, and some
others—are deficient in their present form, and require alterations.
But considering the great probability that the framers of those laws
were wiser than myself, I should prefer not meddling with them, unless
they were first attacked by others, in which case I should feel it both
a privilege and a duty to take that stand which, in my view, might tend
to the advancement of justice.
But, fellow-citizens, I shall conclude. Considering the great degree of
modesty which should always attend youth, it is probable I have already
been more presuming than becomes me. However, upon the subjects of which
I have treated, I have spoken as I have thought. I may be wrong in
regard to any or all of them; but, holding it a sound maxim that it is
better only to be sometimes right than at all times wrong, so soon as I
discover my opinions to be erroneous I shall be ready to renounce them.
Every man is said to have his peculiar ambition. Whether it be true or
not, I can say, for one, that I have no other so great as that of being
truly esteemed of my fellow-men by rendering myself worthy of their
esteem. How far I shall succeed in gratifying this ambition is yet to be
developed. I am young and unknown to many of you; I was born and have
ever remained in the most humble walks of life. I have no wealthy or
popular relations or friends to recommend me. My case is thrown
exclusively upon the independent voters of the county, and if elected,
they will have conferred a favour upon me for which I shall be
unremitting in my labours to compensate. But if the good people in their
wisdom shall see fit to keep me in the background, I have been too
familiar with disappointments to be very much chagrined.
Your friend and fellow-citizen,A. LINCOLN.
Dear Colonel, I am told that during my absence last week you passed
through this place, and stated publicly that you were in possession of a
fact or facts which, if known to the public, would entirely destroy the
prospects of N.W. Edwards and myself at the ensuing election; but that,
through favour to us, you should forbear to divulge them. No one has
needed favours more than I, and, generally, few have been less unwilling
to accept them; but in this case favour to me would be injustice to the
public, and therefore I must beg your pardon for declining it. That I
once had the confidence of the people of Sangamon, is sufficiently
evident; and if I have since done anything, either by design or
misadventure, which if known would subject me to a forfeiture of that
confidence, he that knows of that thing, and conceals it, is a traitor
to his country's interest.
I find myself wholly unable to form any conjecture of what fact or
facts, real or supposed, you spoke; but my opinion of your veracity will
not permit me for a moment to doubt that you at least believed what you
said. I am flattered with the personal regard you manifested for me; but
I do hope that, on more mature reflection, you will view the public
interest as a paramount consideration, and therefore determine to let
the worst come. I here assure you that the candid statement of facts on
your part, however low it may sink me, shall never break the tie of
personal friendship between us. I wish an answer to this, and you are at
liberty to publish both, if you choose.
I go for all sharing the privileges of the government who assist in
bearing its burdens: consequently I go for admitting all whites to the
right of suffrage who pay taxes or bear arms [by no means excluding
females].
As a subject for the remarks of the evening "The perpetuation of our
political institutions" is selected. In the great journal of things
happening under the sun, we, the American people, find our account
running under the date of the nineteenth century of the Christian era.
We find ourselves in the peaceful possession of the fairest portion of
the earth, as regards extent of territory, fertility of soil, and
salubrity of climate. We find ourselves under the government of a system
of political institutions conducing more essentially to the ends of
civil and religious liberty, than any of which the history of former
times tells us. We, when remounting the stage of existence, found
ourselves the legal inheritors of these fundamental blessings. We toiled
not in the acquirement or the establishment of them; they are a legacy
bequeathed to us by a once hardy, brave, and patriotic, but now lamented
and departed race of ancestors.
Theirs was the task (and nobly they performed it) to possess themselves,
and through themselves us, of this goodly land, and to rear upon its
hills and valleys a political edifice of liberty and equal rights; 'tis
ours only to transmit these,—the former unprofaned by the foot of the
invader; the latter undecayed by lapse of time. This, our duty to
ourselves and to our posterity, and love for our species in general,
imperatively require us to perform.
How, then, shall we perform it? At what point shall we expect the
approach of danger? By what means shall we fortify against it? Shall we
expect some transatlantic military giant to step across the ocean and
crush us at a blow? Never. All the armies of Europe, Asia and Africa
combined, with all the treasure of the earth (our own excepted) in their
military chest, with a Bonaparte for a commander, could not, by force,
take a drink from the Ohio, or make a track on the Blue Ridge, in a
trial of a thousand years.
At what point, then, is the approach of danger to be expected? I answer,
if it ever reaches us, it must spring up among us. It cannot come from
abroad. If destruction be our lot, we must ourselves be its author and
finisher. As a nation of freemen, we must live through all time, or die
by suicide.
There is even now something of ill omen among us. I mean the increasing
disregard for law which pervades the country; the growing disposition to
substitute wild and furious passions in lieu of the sober judgment of
courts; and the worse than savage mobs for the executive ministers of
justice. This disposition is awfully fearful in any community; and that
it now exists in ours, though grating to our feelings to admit, it would
be a violation of truth and an insult to our intelligence to deny.
I know the American people aremuchattached to their government. I
know they would suffermuchfor its sake. I know they would endure
evils long and patiently before they would ever think of exchanging it
for another. Yet, notwithstanding all this, if the laws be continually
despised and disregarded, if their rights to be secure in their persons
and property are held by no better tenure than the caprice of a mob, the
alienation of their affection for the government is the natural
consequence, and to that sooner or later it must come.
Here, then, is one point at which danger may be expected. The question
recurs, how shall we fortify against it? The answer is simple. Let every
American, every lover of liberty, every well-wisher to his posterity,
swear by the blood of the Revolution never to violate in the least
particular the laws of the country, and never to tolerate their
violation by others. As the patriots of seventy-six did to the support
of the Declaration of Independence, so to the support of the
Constitution and the Laws let every American pledge his life, his
property, and his sacred honour; let every man remember that to violate
the law is to trample on the blood of his father, and to tear the
charter of his own and his children's liberty. Let reverence for the
laws be breathed by every American mother to the lisping babe that
prattles on her lap. Let it be taught in schools, in seminaries, and in
colleges. Let it be written in primers, spelling-books, and in almanacs.
Let it be preached from the pulpit, proclaimed in legislative halls, and
enforced in courts of justice. And, in short, let it become the
political religion of the nation.
When I so pressingly urge a strict observance of all the laws, let me
not be understood as saying that there are no bad laws, or that
grievances may not arise for the redress of which no legal provisions
have been made. I mean to say no such thing. But I do mean to say that
although bad laws, if they exist, should be repealed as soon as
possible, still, while they continue in force, for the sake of example
they should be religiously observed. So also in unprovided cases. If
such arise, let proper legal provisions be made for them with the least
possible delay, but till then let them, if not too intolerable, be borne
with.
There is no grievance that is a fit object of redress by mob law. In any
case that may arise, as, for instance, the promulgation of abolitionism,
one of two positions is necessarily true—that is, the thing is right
within itself, and therefore deserves the protection of all law and all
good citizens, or it is wrong, and therefore proper to be prohibited by
legal enactments; and in neither case is the interposition of mob law
either necessary, justifiable, or excusable....
They (histories of the Revolution) were pillars of the temple of
liberty; and now that they have crumbled away, that temple must fall
unless we, their descendants, supply their places with other pillars,
hewn from the solid quarry of sober reason. Passion has helped us, but
can do so no more. It will in future be our enemy. Reason—cold,
calculating, unimpassioned reason—must furnish all the materials for
our future support and defence. Let those materials be moulded into
general intelligence, sound morality, and, in particular, a reverence
for the Constitution and laws; and that we improved to the last, that we
remained free to the last, that we revered his name to the last, that
during his long sleep we permitted no hostile foot to pass over or
desecrate his resting-place, shall be that which to learn the last trump
shall awaken our Washington.
Upon these let the proud fabric of freedom rest, as the rock of its
basis; and as truly as has been said of the only greater institution,
"the gates of hell shall not prevail against it."
Many great and good men, sufficiently qualified for any task they should
undertake, may ever be found, whose ambition would aspire to nothing
beyond a seat in Congress, a gubernatorial or a presidential chair. But
such belong not to the family of the lion or the brood of the eagle.
What? Think you these places would satisfy an Alexander, a Cæsar, or a
Napoleon? Never! Towering genius disdains a beaten path. It seeks
regions hitherto unexplored. It sees no distinction in adding story to
story upon the monuments of fame erected to the memory of others. It
denies that it is glory enough to serve under any chief. It scorns to
tread in the footsteps of any predecessor, however illustrious. It
thirsts and burns for distinction; and, if possible, it will have it,
whether at the expense of emancipating slaves, or enslaving free men. Is
it unreasonable, then, to expect that some men, possessed of the
loftiest genius, coupled with ambition sufficient to push it to its
utmost stretch, will at some time spring up among us? And when such a
one does, it will require the people to be united with each other,
attached to the government and laws, and generally intelligent, to
successfully frustrate his design.
Distinction will be his paramount object, and although he would as
willingly, perhaps more so, acquire it by doing good as harm, yet that
opportunity being passed, and nothing left to be done in the way of
building up, he would sit down boldly to the task of pulling down. Here,
then, is a probable case, highly dangerous, and such a one as could not
well have existed heretofore.
All honour to our Revolutionary ancestors, to whom we are indebted for
these institutions. They will not be forgotten. In history we hope they
will be read of, and recounted, so long as the Bible shall be read. But
even granting that they will, their influence cannot be what it
heretofore has been. Even then, they cannot be so universally known, nor
so vividly felt, as they were by the generation just gone to rest. At
the close of that struggle, nearly every adult male had been a
participator in some of its scenes. The consequence was, that of those
scenes, in the form of a husband, a father, a son, or a brother, a
living history was to be found in every family,—a history bearing the
indubitable testimonies to its own authenticity in the limbs mangled, in
the scars of wounds received in the midst of the very scenes related; a
history, too, that could be read and understood alike by all, the wise
and the ignorant, the learned and the unlearned. But those histories are
gone. They can be read no more for ever. They were a fortress of
strength; but what the invading foemen could never do, the silent
artillery of time has done,—the levelling of its walls. They are gone.
They were a forest of giant oaks; but the resistless hurricane has swept
over them, and left only here and there a lonely trunk, despoiled of its
verdure, shorn of its foliage, unshading and unshaded, to murmur in a
few more gentle breezes, and to combat with its mutilated limbs a few
more ruder storms, and then to sink and be no more.
Dear Madam, Without apologising for being egotistical, I shall make the
history of so much of my life as has elapsed since I saw you the subject
of this letter. And, by the way, I now discover that in order to give a
full and intelligible account of the things I have done and suffered
since I saw you, I shall necessarily have to relate some that happened
before.
It was, then, in the autumn of 1836 that a married lady of my
acquaintance, and who was a great friend of mine, being about to pay a
visit to her father and other relatives residing in Kentucky, proposed
to me that on her return she would bring a sister of hers with her on
condition that I would engage to become her brother-in-law with all
convenient dispatch. I, of course, accepted the proposal, for you know I
could not have done otherwise had I really been averse to it; but
privately, between you and me, I was most confoundedly well pleased with
the project. I had seen the said sister some three years before, thought
her intelligent and agreeable, and saw no good objection to plodding
life through hand-in-hand with her. Time passed on, the lady took her
journey, and in due time returned, sister in company, sure enough. This
astonished me a little, for it appeared to me that her coming so readily
showed that she was a trifle too willing, but on reflection it occurred
to me that she might have been prevailed on by her married sister to
come, without anything concerning me having been mentioned to her, and
so I concluded that if no other objection presented itself, I would
consent to waive this. All this occurred to me on hearing of her arrival
in the neighbourhood—for, be it remembered, I had not yet seen her,
except about three years previous, as above mentioned. In a few days we
had an interview, and, although I had seen her before, she did not look
as my imagination had pictured her. I knew she was over-size, but she
now appeared a fair match for Falstaff. I knew she was called an "old
maid," and I felt no doubt of the truth of at least half of the
appellation, but now, when I beheld her, I could not for my life avoid
thinking of my mother; and this, not from withered features,—for her
skin was too full of fat to permit of its contracting into wrinkles—but
from her want of teeth, weather-beaten appearance in general, and from a
kind of notion that ran in my head that nothing could have commenced at
the size of infancy and reached her present bulk in less than
thirty-five or forty years; and, in short, I was not at all pleased with
her. But what could I do? I had told her sister that I would take her
for better or for worse, and I made a point of honour and conscience in
all things to stick to my word, especially if others had been induced to
act on it, which in this case I had no doubt they had, for I was now
fairly convinced that no other man on earth would have her, and hence
the conclusion that they were bent on holding me to my bargain. "Well,"
thought I, "I have said it, and, be the consequences what they may, it
shall not be my fault if I fail to do it." At once I determined to
consider her my wife, and this done, all my powers of discovery were put
to work in search of perfections in her which might be fairly set off
against her defects. I tried to imagine her handsome, which, but for her
unfortunate corpulency, was actually true. Exclusive of this, no woman
that I have ever seen has a finer face. I also tried to convince myself
that the mind was much more to be valued than the person, and in this
she was not inferior, as I could discover, to any with whom I had been
acquainted.
Shortly after this, without attempting to come to any positive
understanding with her, I set out for Vandalia, when and where you first
saw me. During my stay there I had letters from her which did not change
my opinion of either her intellect or intention, but, on the contrary,
confirmed it in both.
All this while, although I was fixed "firm as the surge-repelling rock"
in my resolution, I found I was continually repenting the rashness which
had led me to make it. Through life I have been in no bondage, either
real or imaginary, from the thraldom of which I so much desired to be
free. After my return home I saw nothing to change my opinion of her in
any particular. She was the same, and so was I. I now spent my time in
planning how I might get along in life after my contemplated change of
circumstances should have taken place, and how I might procrastinate the
evil day for a time, which I really dreaded as much, perhaps more, than
an Irishman does the halter.
After all my sufferings upon this deeply interesting subject, here I
am, wholly, unexpectedly, completely out of the "scrape," and I now want
to know if you can guess how I got out of it—out, clear, in every sense
of the term—no violation of word, honour, or conscience. I don't
believe you can guess, and so I might as well tell you at once. As the
lawyer says, it was done in the manner following, to wit: After I had
delayed the matter as long as I thought I could in honour do (which, by
the way, had brought me round into the last fall), I concluded I might
as well bring it to a consummation without further delay, and so I
mustered my resolution and made the proposal to her direct; but,
shocking to relate, she answered, No. At first I supposed she did it
through an affectation of modesty, which I thought but ill became her
under the peculiar circumstances of the case, but on my renewal of the
charge I found she repelled it with greater firmness than before. I
tried it again and again, but with the same success, or rather with the
same want of success.
I finally was forced to give it up, at which I very unexpectedly found
myself mortified almost beyond endurance. I was mortified, it seemed to
me, in a hundred different ways. My vanity was deeply wounded by the
reflection that I had so long been too stupid to discover her
intentions, and at the same time never doubting that I understood them
perfectly; and also that she, whom I had taught myself to believe nobody
else would have, had actually rejected me with all my fancied greatness.
And, to cap the whole, I then for the first time began to suspect that I
was really a little in love with her. But let it all go! I'll try and
outlive it. Others have been made fools of by the girls, but this can
never in truth be said of me. I most emphatically, in this instance,
made a fool of myself. I have now come to the conclusion never again to
think of marrying, and for this reason—I can never be satisfied with
any one who would be blockhead enough to have me.
When you receive this, write me a long yarn about something to amuse me.
Give my respects to Mr. Browning.
... Mr. Lamborn insists that the difference between the Van Buren party
and the Whigs is, that although the former sometimes err in practice,
they are always correct in principle, whereas the latter are wrong in
principle; and the better to impress this proposition, he uses a
figurative expression in these words: "The Democrats are vulnerable in
the heel, but they are sound in the heart and in the head." The first
branch of the figure—that is, that the Democrats are vulnerable in the
heel—I admit is not merely figuratively but literally true. Who that
looks but for a moment at their Swartwouts, their Prices, their
Harringtons, and their hundreds of others, scampering away with the
public money to Texas, to Europe, and to every spot of the earth where a
villain may hope to find refuge from justice, can at all doubt that they
are most distressingly affected in their heels with a species of running
fever? It seems that this malady of their heels operates on the
sound-headed and honest-hearted creatures very much like the cork leg in
the song did on its owner, which, when he had once got started on it,
the more he tried to stop it, the more it would run away. At the hazard
of wearing this point threadbare, I will relate an anecdote which seems
to be too strikingly in point to be omitted. A witty Irish soldier who
was always boasting of his bravery when no danger was near, but who
invariably retreated without orders at the first charge of the
engagement, being asked by his captain why he did so, replied, "Captain,
I have as brave a heart as Julius Cæsar ever had; but somehow or other,
whenever danger approaches, my cowardly legs will run away with it." So
it is with Mr. Lamborn's party. They take the public money into their
hands for the most laudable purpose that wise heads and honest hearts
can dictate, but before they can possibly get it out again, their
rascally vulnerable heels will run away with them....
Dear Sir, Your note of yesterday is received. In the difficulty between
us of which you speak, you say you think I was the aggressor. I do not
think I was. You say my "words imported insult." I meant them as a fair
set-off to your own statements, and not otherwise; and in that light
alone I now wish you to understand them. You ask for my present
"feelings on the subject." I entertain no unkind feelings to you, and
none of any sort upon the subject, except a sincere regret that I
permitted myself to get into such an altercation.
For not giving you a general summary of news, you must pardon me; it is
not in my power to do so. I am now the most miserable man living. If
what I feel were equally distributed to the whole human family, there
would not be one cheerful face on earth. Whether I shall ever be better,
I cannot tell; I awfully forebode I shall not. To remain as I am is
impossible; I must die or be better, it appears to me. The matter you
speak of on my account you may attend to as you say, unless you shall
hear of my condition forbidding it. I say this because I fear I shall be
unable to attend to any business here, and a change of scene might help
me. If I could be myself, I would rather remain at home with Judge
Logan. I can write no more.
Although the temperance cause has been in progress for nearly twenty
years, it is apparent to all that it is just now being crowned with a
degree of success hitherto unparalleled.
The list of its friends is daily swelled by the additions of fifties, of
hundreds, and of thousands. The cause itself seems suddenly transformed
from a cold abstract theory to a living, breathing, active and powerful
chieftain, going forth conquering and to conquer. The citadels of his
great adversary are daily being stormed and dismantled; his temples and
his altars, where the rites of his idolatrous worship have long been
performed, and where human sacrifices have long been wont to be made,
are daily desecrated and deserted. The trump of the conqueror's fame is
sounding from hill to hill, from sea to sea, and from land to land, and
calling millions to his standard at a blast.
"But," say some, "we are no drunkards, and we shall not acknowledge
ourselves such by joining a reform drunkard's society, whatever our
influence might be." Surely no Christian will adhere to this objection.
If they believe, as they profess, that Omnipotence condescended to take
on himself the form of sinful man, and, as such, to die an ignominious
death for their sakes, surely they will not refuse submission to the
infinitely lesser condescension for the temporal and perhaps eternal
salvation of a large, erring, and unfortunate class of their
fellow-creatures; nor is the condescension very great. In my judgment,
such of us as have never fallen victims have been spared more from the
absence of appetite, than from any mental or moral superiority over
those who have. Indeed I believe, if we take habitual drunkards as a
class, their heads and their hearts will bear an advantageous comparison
with those of any other class. There seems ever to have been a proneness
in the brilliant and warm-blooded to fall into this vice. The demon of
intemperance ever seems to have delighted in sucking the blood of genius
and generosity. What one of us but can call to mind some relative more
promising in youth than all his fellows, who has fallen a sacrifice to
his rapacity? He ever seems to have gone forth like the Egyptian angel
of death, commissioned to slay, if not the first, the fairest born of
every family. Shall he now be arrested in his desolating career? In that
arrest all can give aid that will; and who shall be excused that can and
will not? Far around as human breath has ever blown, he keeps our
fathers, our brothers, our sons, and our friends prostrate in the chains
of moral death....
When the conduct of men is designed to be influenced, persuasion, kind,
unassuming persuasion, should ever be adopted. It is an old and a true
maxim "that a drop of honey catches more flies than a gallon of gall."
So with men. If you would win a man to your cause, first convince him
that you are his sincere friend. Therein is a drop of honey that catches
his heart, which, say what you will, is the great high-road to his
reason, and which, when once gained, you will find but little trouble in
convincing his judgment of the justice of your cause, if indeed that
cause really be a just one. On the contrary, assume to dictate to his
judgment, or to command his action, or to mark him as one to be shunned
and despised, and he will retreat within himself, close all the avenues
to his head and his heart; and though your cause be naked truth itself,
transformed to the heaviest lance, harder than steel, and sharper than
steel can be made, and though you throw it with more than herculean
force and precision, you shall be no more able to pierce him than to
penetrate the hard shell of a tortoise with a rye straw. Such is man,
and so must he be understood by those who would lead him, even to his
own best interests....
Another error, as it seems to me, into which the old reformers fell, was
the position that all habitual drunkards were utterly incorrigible, and
therefore must be turned adrift and damned without remedy in order that
the grace of temperance might abound, to the temperate then, and to all
mankind some hundreds of years thereafter. There is in this something so
repugnant to humanity, so uncharitable, so cold-blooded and feelingless,
that it never did, nor never can enlist the enthusiasm of a popular
cause. We could not love the man who taught it—we could not hear him
with patience. The heart could not throw open its portals to it, the
generous man could not adopt it—it could not mix with his blood. It
looked so fiendishly selfish, so like throwing fathers and brothers
overboard to lighten the boat for our security, that the noble-minded
shrank from the manifest meanness of the thing. And besides this, the
benefits of a reformation to be effected by such a system were too
remote in point of time to warmly engage many in its behalf. Few can be
induced to labour exclusively for posterity; and none will do it
enthusiastically. Posterity has done nothing for us; and theorize on it
as we may, practically we shall do very little for it, unless we are
made to think we are at the same time doing something for ourselves.
What an ignorance of human nature does it exhibit, to ask or expect a
whole community to rise up and labour for the temporal happiness of
others, after themselves shall be consigned to the dust, a majority of
which community take no pains whatever to secure their own eternal
welfare at no more distant day! Great distance in either time or space
has wonderful power to lull and render quiescent the human mind.
Pleasures to be enjoyed, or pains to be endured, after we shall be dead
and gone, are but little regarded even in our own cases, and much less
in the cases of others. Still, in addition to this there is something so
ludicrous in promises of good or threats of evil a great way off as to
render the whole subject with which they are connected easily turned
into ridicule. "Better lay down that spade you are stealing, Paddy; if
you don't you'll pay for it at the day of judgment." "Be the powers, if
ye'll credit me so long I'll take another jist."
... The system of loans is but temporary in its nature, and must soon
explode. It is a system not only ruinous while it lasts, but one that
must soon fail and leave us destitute.
As an individual who undertakes to live by borrowing soon finds his
original means devoured by interest, and next, no one left to borrow
from, so must it be with a government.
We repeat, then, that a tariff sufficient for revenue, or a direct tax,
must soon be resorted to; and, indeed, we believe this alternative is
now denied by no one. But which system shall be adopted? Some of our
opponents in theory admit the propriety of a tariff sufficient for
revenue, but even they will not in practice vote for such a tariff;
while others boldly advocate direct taxation. Inasmuch, therefore, as
some of them boldly advocate direct taxation, and all the rest—or so
nearly all as to make exceptions needless—refuse to adopt the tariff,
we think it is doing them no injustice to class them all as advocates of
direct taxation. Indeed, we believe they are only delaying an open
avowal of the system till they can assure themselves that the people
will tolerate it. Let us, then, briefly compare the two systems. The
tariff is the cheaper system, because the duties, being collected in
large parcels, at a few commercial points, will require comparatively
few officers in their collection; while by the direct tax system the
land must be literally covered with assessors and collectors, going
forth like swarms of Egyptian locusts, devouring every blade of grass
and other green thing. And, again, by the tariff system the whole
revenue is paid by the consumers of foreign goods, and those chiefly the
luxuries and not the necessaries of life. By this system, the man who
contents himself to live upon the products of his own country pays
nothing at all. And surely that country is extensive enough, and its
products abundant and varied enough, to answer all the real wants of its
people. In short, by this system the burden of revenue falls almost
entirely on the wealthy and luxurious few, while the substantial and
labouring many, who live at home and upon home products, go entirely
free. By the direct tax system, none can escape. However strictly the
citizen may exclude from his premises all foreign luxuries, fine cloths,
fine silks, rich wines, golden chains, and diamond rings,—still, for
the possession of his house, his barn, and his homespun he is to be
perpetually haunted and harassed by the tax-gatherer. With these views,
we leave it to be determined whether we or our opponents are more truly
democratic on the subject.
It is truly gratifying to me to learn that while the people of Sangamon
have cast me off, my old friends of Menard, who have known me longest
and best, stick to me. It would astonish, if not amuse, the older
citizens to learn that I (a stranger, friendless, uneducated, penniless
boy, working on a flatboat at ten dollars per month) have been put down
here as the candidate of pride, wealth, and aristocratic family
distinction. Yet so, chiefly, it was. There was, too, the strangest
combination of church influence against me. Baker is a Campbellite; and
therefore, as I suppose, with few exceptions, got all that church. My
wife has some relations in the Presbyterian churches, and some with the
Episcopal churches; and therefore, wherever it would tell, I was set
down as either the one or the other, while it was everywhere contended
that no Christian ought to go for me, because I belonged to no church,
was suspected of being a deist, and had talked about fighting a duel.
With all these things, Baker, of course, had nothing to do. Nor do I
complain of them. As to his own church going for him, I think that was
right enough, and as to the influences I have spoken of in the other,
though they were very strong, it would be grossly untrue and unjust to
charge that they acted upon them in a body, or were very near so. I only
mean that those influences levied a tax of a considerable per cent. upon
my strength throughout the religious controversy. But enough of this.
We have another boy, born the 10th of March. He is very much such a
child as Bob was at his age, rather of a longer order. Bob is "short and
low," and I expect always will be. He talks very plainly—almost as
plainly as anybody. He is quite smart enough. I sometimes fear that he
is one of the little rare-ripe sort that are smarter at about five than
ever after. He has a great deal of that sort of mischief that is the
offspring of such animal spirits. Since I began this letter, a messenger
came to tell me Bob was lost; but by the time I reached the house his
mother had found him and had him whipped, and by now, very likely, he is
run away again.
Dear William, Your letter of December 27th was received a day or two
ago. I am much obliged to you for the trouble you have taken, and
promise to take in my little business there. As to speech-making, by way
of getting the hang of the House, I made a little speech two or three
days ago on a post-office question of no general interest. I find
speaking here and elsewhere about the same thing. I was about as badly
scared, and no worse, as I am when I speak in court. I expect to make
one within a week or two, in which I hope to succeed well enough to wish
you to see it.
It is very pleasant to learn from you that there are some who desire
that I should be re-elected. I most heartily thank them for their
partiality; and I can say, as Mr. Clay said of the annexation of Texas,
that "personally I would not object" to a re-election, although I
thought at the time, and still think, it would be quite as well for me
to return to the law at the end of a single term. I made the declaration
that I would not be a candidate again, more from a wish to deal fairly
with others, to keep peace among our friends, and to keep the district
from going to the enemy, than for any cause personal to myself; so that,
if it should so happen that nobody else wishes to be elected, I could
refuse the people the right of sending me again. But to enter myself as
a competitor of others, or to authorize any one so to enter me, is what
my word and honour forbid.
As to the young men. You must not wait to be brought forward by the
older men. For instance, do you suppose that I should ever have got into
notice if I had waited to be hunted up and pushed forward by older men?
You young men get together and form a "Rough and Ready Club," and have
regular meetings and speeches. Take in everybody you can get. Harrison
Grimsley, L.A. Enos, Lee Kimball and C.W. Matheny will do to begin the
thing; but as you go along gather up all the shrewd, wild boys about
town, whether just of age or a little under age—Chris. Logan, Reddick
Ridgley, Lewis Zwizler, and hundreds such. Let every one play the part
he can play best,—some speak, some sing, and all "holler." Your
meetings will be of evenings; the older men, and the women, will go to
hear you; so that it will not only contribute to the election of "Old
Zach," but will be an interesting pastime, and improving to the
intellectual faculties of all engaged. Don't fail to do this.
The way for a young man to rise is to improve himself every way he can,
never suspecting that anybody wishes to hinder him. Allow me to assure
you that suspicion and jealousy never did help any man in any situation.
There may sometimes be ungenerous attempts to keep a young man down; and
they will succeed, too, if he allows his mind to be diverted from its
true channel to brood over the attempted injury. Cast about, and see if
this feeling has not injured every person you have ever known to fall
into it.
Dear Johnston, Your request for eighty dollars I do not think it best to
comply with now. At the various times when I have helped you a little
you have said to me, "We can get along very well now"; but in a very
short time I find you in the same difficulty again. Now, this can only
happen by some defect in your conduct. What that defect is, I think I
know. You are not lazy, and still you are an idler. I doubt whether,
since I saw you, you have done a good whole day's work in any one day.
You do not very much dislike to work, and still you do not work much,
merely because it does not seem to you that you could get much for it.
This habit of uselessly wasting time is the whole difficulty; it is
vastly important to you, and still more so to your children, that you
should break the habit. It is more important to them, because they have
longer to live, and can keep out of an idle habit before they are in it,
easier than they can get out after they are in.
You are now in need of some money; and what I propose is, that you shall
go to work, "tooth and nail," for somebody who will give you money for
it. Let father and your boys take charge of your things at home,
prepare for a crop, and make the crop, and you go to work for the best
money wages, or in discharge of any debt you owe, that you can get; and,
to secure you a fair reward for your labour, I now promise you, that for
every dollar you will, between this and the first of May, get for your
own labour, either in money or as your own indebtedness, I will then
give you one other dollar. By this, if you hire yourself at ten dollars
a month, from me you will get ten more, making twenty dollars a month
for your work. In this I do not mean you shall go off to St. Louis, or
the lead mines, or the gold mines in California, but I mean for you to
go at it for the best wages you can get close to home in Coles County.
Now, if you will do this, you will be soon out of debt, and, what is
better, you will have a habit that will keep you from getting in debt
again. But, if I should now clear you out of debt, next year you would
be just as deep in as ever. You say you would almost give your place in
heaven for seventy or eighty dollars. Then you value your place in
heaven very cheap, for I am sure you can, with the offer I make, get the
seventy or eighty dollars for four or five months' work. You say if I
will furnish you the money you will deed me the land, and, if you don't
pay the money back, you will deliver possession. Nonsense! If you can't
now live with the land, how will you then live without it? You have
always been kind to me, and I do not mean to be unkind to you. On the
contrary, if you will but follow my advice, you will find it worth more
than eighty times eighty dollars to you.
Dear Brother, When I came into Charleston day before yesterday, I
learned that you are anxious to sell the land where you live and move to
Missouri. I have been thinking of this ever since, and cannot but think
such a notion is utterly foolish. What can you do in Missouri better
than here? Is the land any richer? Can you there, any more than here,
raise corn and wheat and oats without work? Will anybody there, any more
than here, do your work for you? If you intend to go to work, there is
no better place than right where you are; if you do not intend to go to
work, you cannot get along anywhere. Squirming and crawling about from
place to place can do no good. You have raised no crop this year; and
what you really want is to sell the land, get the money, and spend it.
Part with the land you have, and, my life upon it, you will never after
own a spot big enough to bury you in. Half you will get for the land you
will spend in moving to Missouri, and the other half you will eat,
drink, and wear out, and no foot of land will be bought. Now, I feel it
my duty to have no hand in such a piece of foolery. I feel that it is so
even on your own account, and particularly on mother's account. The
eastern forty acres I intend to keep for mother while she lives; if you
will not cultivate it, it will rent for enough to support her—at least,
it will rent for something. Her dower in the other two forties she can
let you have, and no thanks to me. Now, do not misunderstand this
letter; I do not write it in any unkindness. I write it in order, if
possible, to get you to face the truth, which truth is, you are
destitute because you have idled away all your time. Your thousand
pretences for not getting along better are all nonsense; they deceive
nobody but yourself. Go to work is the only cure for your case.
A word to mother. Chapman tells me he wants you to go and live with him.
If I were you I would try it awhile. If you get tired of it (as I think
you will not), you can return to your own home. Chapman feels very
kindly to you, and I have no doubt he will make your situation very
pleasant.
I am not an accomplished lawyer. I find quite as much material for a
lecture in those points wherein I have failed, as in those wherein I
have been moderately successful. The leading rule for a lawyer, as for
the man of every other calling, is diligence. Leave nothing for
to-morrow which can be done to-day. Never let your correspondence fall
behind. Whatever piece of business you have in hand, before stopping, do
all the labour pertaining to it which can then be done. When you bring a
common law-suit, if you have the facts for doing so, write the
declaration at once. If a law point be involved, examine the books, and
note the authority you rely on upon the declaration itself, where you
are sure to find it when wanted. The same of defences and pleas. In
business not likely to be litigated,—ordinary collection cases,
foreclosures, partitions, and the like,—make all examinations of
titles, and note them and even draft orders and decrees in advance. The
course has a triple advantage; it avoids omissions and neglect, saves
your labour when once done, performs the labour out of court when you
have leisure, rather than in court when you have not.
Extemporaneous speaking should be practised and cultivated. It is the
lawyer's avenue to the public. However able and faithful he may be in
other respects, people are slow to bring him business if he cannot make
a speech. And yet there is not a more fatal error to young lawyers than
relying too much on speech-making. If any one, upon his rare powers of
speaking, shall claim an exemption from the drudgery of the law, his
case is a failure in advance.
Discourage litigation. Persuade your neighbours to compromise whenever
you can. Point out to them how the nominal winner is often a real
loser—in fees, expenses, and waste of time. As a peace-maker the lawyer
has a superior opportunity of being a good man. There will still be
business enough.
Never stir up litigation. A worse man can scarcely be found than one who
does this. Who can be more nearly a fiend than he who habitually
overhauls the register of deeds in search of defects in titles, whereon
to stir up strife, and put money in his pocket? A moral tone ought to be
infused into the profession which should drive such men out of it.
The matter of fees is important, far beyond the mere question of bread
and butter involved. Properly attended to, fuller justice is done to
both lawyer and client. An exorbitant fee should never be claimed. As a
general rule, never take your whole fee in advance, nor any more than a
small retainer. When fully paid beforehand, you are more than a common
mortal if you can feel the same interest in the case as if something was
still in prospect for you, as well as for your client. And when you lack
interest in the case the job will very likely lack skill and diligence
in the performance. Settle the amount of fee and take a note in advance.
Then you will feel that you are working for something, and you are sure
to do your work faithfully and well. Never sell a fee-note—at least not
before the consideration service is performed. It leads to negligence
and dishonesty—negligence by losing interest in the case, and
dishonesty in refusing to refund when you have allowed the consideration
to fail.
There is a vague popular belief that lawyers are necessarily dishonest.
I say vague, because when we consider to what extent confidence and
honours are reposed in and conferred upon lawyers by the people, it
appears improbable that their impression of dishonesty is very distinct
and vivid. Yet the impression is common, almost universal. Let no young
man choosing the law for a calling for a moment yield to the popular
belief. Resolve to be honest at all events; and if in your own judgment
you cannot be an honest lawyer, resolve to be honest without being a
lawyer. Choose some other occupation, rather than one in the choosing of
which you do, in advance, consent to be a knave.
Equality in society alike beats inequality, whether the latter be of the
British aristocratic sort or of the domestic slavery sort.
We know Southern men declare that their slaves are better off than hired
labourers amongst us. How little they know whereof they speak! There is
no permanent class of hired labourers amongst us. Twenty-five years ago
I was a hired labourer. The hired labourer of yesterday labours on his
own account to-day, and will hire others to labour for him to-morrow.
Advancement—improvement in condition—is the order of things in a
society of equals. As labour is the common burden of our race, so the
effort of some to shift their share of the burden on to the shoulders of
others is the great durable curse of the race. Originally a curse for
transgression upon the whole race, when, as by slavery, it is
concentrated on a part only, it becomes the double-refined curse of God
upon his creatures.
Free labour has the inspiration of hope; pure slavery has no hope. The
power of hope upon human exertion and happiness is wonderful. The
slave-master himself has a conception of it, and hence the system of
tasks among slaves. The slave whom you cannot drive with the lash to
break seventy-five pounds of hemp in a day, if you will task him to
break a hundred, and promise him pay for all he does over, he will break
you a hundred and fifty. You have substituted hope for the rod.
And yet perhaps it does not occur to you that, to the extent of your
gain in the case, you have given up the slave system and adopted the
free system of labour.
If A can prove, however conclusively, that he may of right enslave B,
why may not B snatch the same argument and prove equally that he may
enslave A? You say A is white and B is black. It is colour, then; the
lighter having the right to enslave the darker? Take care. By this rule
you are to be slave to the first man you meet with a fairer skin than
your own.
You do not mean colour exactly? You mean the whites are intellectually
the superiors of the blacks, and therefore have the right to enslave
them? Take care again. By this rule you are to be slave to the first man
you meet with an intellect superior to your own.
But, say you, it is a question of interest, and if you make it your
interest you have the right to enslave another. Very well. And if he can
make it his interest he has the right to enslave you.
... Our war with Mexico broke out in 1846. When Congress was about
adjourning that session, President Polk asked them to place two millions
of dollars under his control, to be used by him in the recess, if found
practicable and expedient, in negotiating a treaty of peace with Mexico,
and acquiring some part of her territory. A bill was duly gotten up for
the purpose, and was progressing swimmingly in the House of
Representatives, when a Democratic member from Pennsylvania by the name
of David Wilmot moved as an amendment, "Provided, that in any territory
thus acquired there shall never be slavery."This is the origin of the
far-famed Wilmot Proviso.It created a great flutter; but it stuck like
wax, was voted into the bill, and the bill passed with it through the
House. The Senate, however, adjourned without final action on it, and so
both the appropriation and the proviso were lost for the time.
... This declared indifference, but, as I must think, real, covert zeal,
for the spread of slavery, I cannot but hate. I hate it because of the
monstrous injustice of slavery itself. I hate it because it deprives our
republican example of its just influence in the world, enables the
enemies of free institutions with plausibility to taunt us as
hypocrites, causes the real friends of freedom to doubt our sincerity,
and especially because it forces so many good men amongst ourselves into
an open war with the very fundamental principles of civil liberty,
criticizing the Declaration of Independence, and insisting that there is
no right principle of action but self-interest.
Before proceeding let me say that I think I have no prejudice against
the Southern people. They are just what we would be in their situation.
If slavery did not now exist among them, they would not introduce it. If
it did now exist among us, we should not instantly give it up. This I
believe of the masses North and South. Doubtless there are individuals
on both sides who would not hold slaves under any circumstances, and
others who would gladly introduce slavery anew if it were out of
existence. We know that some Southern men do free their slaves, go North
and become tip-top Abolitionists, while some Northern ones go South and
become most cruel slave-masters.
When Southern people tell us they are no more responsible for the origin
of slavery than we are, I acknowledge the fact. When it is said that the
institution exists, and that it is very difficult to get rid of it in
any satisfactory way, I can understand and appreciate the saying. I
surely will not blame them for not doing what I should not know how to
do myself. If all earthly power were given me, I should not know what to
do as to the existing institution. My first impulse would be to free all
the slaves, and send them to Liberia, to their own native land. But a
moment's reflection would convince me that whatever of high hope (as I
think there is) there may be in this in the long run, its sudden
execution is impossible. If they were all landed there in a day, they
would all perish in the next ten days; and there are not surplus
shipping and surplus money enough to carry them there in many times ten
days. What then? Free them all, and keep them among us as underlings? Is
it quite certain that this betters their condition? I think I would not
hold one in slavery at any rate, yet the point is not clear enough for
me to denounce people upon. What next? Free them, and make them
politically and socially our equals? My own feelings will not admit of
this, and if mine would, we well know that those of the great mass of
whites will not. Whether this feeling accords with justice and sound
judgment is not the sole question, if indeed it is any part of it. A
universal feeling, whether well or ill founded, cannot be safely
disregarded. We cannot then make them equals. It does seem to me that
systems of gradual emancipation might be adopted, but for their
tardiness in this I will not undertake to judge our brethren of the
South.
Equal justice to the South, it is said, requires us to consent to the
extension of slavery to new countries. That is to say, that inasmuch as
you do not object to my taking my hog to Nebraska, therefore I must not
object to your taking your slave. Now, I admit that this is perfectly
logical, if there is no difference between hogs and slaves. But while
you thus require me to deny the humanity of the negro, I wish to ask
whether you of the South, yourselves, have ever been willing to do as
much? It is kindly provided that of all those who come into the world,
only a small percentage are natural tyrants. That percentage is no
larger in the slave States than in the free. The great majority, South
as well as North, have human sympathies, of which they can no more
divest themselves than they can of their sensibility to physical pain.
These sympathies in the bosoms of the Southern people manifest in many
ways their sense of the wrong of slavery, and their consciousness that,
after all, there is humanity in the negro. If they deny this let me
address them a few plain questions.
In 1820 you joined the North almost unanimously in declaring the African
slave-trade piracy, and in annexing to it the punishment of death. Why
did you do this? If you did not feel that it was wrong, why did you join
in providing that men should be hung for it? The practice was no more
than bringing wild negroes from Africa to such as would buy them. But
you never thought of hanging men for catching and selling wild horses,
wild buffaloes, or wild bears.
Again, you have among you a sneaking individual of the class of native
tyrants known as theslave-dealer. He watches your necessities, and
crawls up to buy your slave at a speculating price. If you cannot help
it, you sell to him; but if you can help it, you drive him from your
door. You despise him utterly; you do not recognize him as a friend, or
even as an honest man. Your children must not play with his; they may
rollick freely with the little negroes, but not with the slave-dealer's
children. If you are obliged to deal with him, you try to get through
the job without so much as touching him. It is common with you to join
hands with the men you meet; but with the slave-dealer you avoid the
ceremony,—instinctively shrinking from the snaky contact. If he grows
rich and retires from business, you still remember him, and still keep
up the ban of non-intercourse upon him and his family. Now, why is this?
You do not so treat the man who deals in cotton, corn, or tobacco.
And yet again. There are in the United States and Territories, including
the District of Columbia, over four hundred and thirty thousand free
blacks. At five hundred dollars per head, they are worth over two
hundred millions of dollars. How comes this vast amount of property to
be running about without owners? We do not see free horses or free
cattle running at large. How is this? All these free blacks are the
descendants of slaves, or have been slaves themselves; and they would be
slaves now but for something that has operated on their white owners,
inducing them at vast pecuniary sacrifice to liberate them. What is that
something? Is there any mistaking it? In all these cases it is your
sense of justice and human sympathy continually telling you that the
poor negro has some natural right to himself,—that those who deny it
and make mere merchandise of him deserve kickings, contempt, and death.
And now why will you ask us to deny the humanity of the slave, and
estimate him as only the equal of the hog? Why ask us to do what you
will not do yourselves? Why ask us to do for nothing what two hundred
millions of dollars could not induce you to do?
But one great argument in support of the repeal of the Missouri
Compromise is still to come. That argument is "the sacred right of
self-government." ... Some poet has said,—
At the hazard of being thought one of the fools of this quotation, I
meet that argument,—I rush in,—I take that bull by the horns.... My
faith in the proposition that each man should do precisely as he pleases
with all which is exclusively his own, lies at the foundation of the
sense of justice there is in me. I extend the principle to communities
of men as well as to individuals. I so extend it because it is
politically wise as well as naturally just,—politically wise in saving
us from broils about matters which do not concern us. Here, or at
Washington, I would not trouble myself with the oyster laws of Virginia,
or the cranberry laws of Indiana. The doctrine of self-government is
right,—absolutely and internally right; but it has no just application
as here attempted. Or perhaps I should rather say that whether it has
any application here depends upon whether a negro is not or is a man. If
he is not a man, in that case he who is a man may, as a matter of
self-government, do just what he pleases with him. But if the negro is a
man, is it not to that extent a total destruction of self-government to
say that he, too, shall not govern himself? When the white man governs
himself, that is self-government; but when he governs himself and also
governs another man, that is more than self-government,—that is
despotism. If the negro is a man, then my ancient faith teaches me that
"all men are created equal," and that there can be no moral right in
connection with one man's making a slave of another.
Judge Douglas frequently, with bitter irony and sarcasm, paraphrases
our argument by saying: "The white people of Nebraska are good enough to
govern themselves, but they are not good enough to govern a few
miserable negroes!"
Well, I doubt not that the people of Nebraska are and will continue to
be as good as the average of people elsewhere. I do not say the
contrary. What I do say is that no man is good enough to govern another
man without that other's consent. I say this is the leading
principle,—the sheet-anchor of American republicanism.
Slavery is founded in the selfishness of man's nature,—opposition to it
in his love of justice. These principles are in eternal antagonism, and
when brought into collision so fiercely as slavery extension brings
them, shocks and throes and convulsions must ceaselessly follow. Repeal
the Missouri Compromise; repeal all compromises; repeal the Declaration
of Independence; repeal all past history,—you still cannot repeal human
nature. It still will be the abundance of man's heart that slavery
extension is wrong, and out of the abundance of his heart his mouth will
continue to speak....
The Missouri Compromise ought to be restored. Slavery may or may not be
established in Nebraska. But whether it be or not, we shall have
repudiated—discarded from the councils of the nation—the spirit of
compromise; for who, after this, will ever trust in a national
compromise? The spirit of mutual concession—that spirit which first
gave us the Constitution, and has thrice saved the Union—we shall have
strangled and cast from us for ever. And what shall we have in lieu of
it? The South flushed with triumph and tempted to excess; the North
betrayed, as they believed, brooding on wrong and burning for revenge.
One side will provoke, the other resent. The one will taunt, the other
defy; one aggresses, the other retaliates. Already a few in the North
defy all constitutional restraints, resist the execution of the Fugitive
Slave Law, and even menace the institution of slavery in the States
where it exists. Already a few in the South claim the constitutional
right to take and hold slaves in the free States, demand the revival of
the slave-trade, and demand a treaty with Great Britain by which
fugitive slaves may be reclaimed from Canada. As yet they are but few on
either side. It is a grave question for lovers of the Union, whether the
final destruction of the Missouri Compromise, and with it the spirit of
all compromise, will or will not embolden and embitter each of these,
and fatally increase the number of both.
... Some men, mostly Whigs, who condemn the repeal of the Missouri
Compromise, nevertheless hesitate to go for its restoration, lest they
be thrown in company with the Abolitionists. Will they allow me, as an
old Whig, to tell them good-humouredly that I think this is very silly?
Stand with anybody that stands right. Stand with him while he is right,
and part with him when he goes wrong. Stand with the Abolitionist in
restoring the Missouri Compromise, and stand against him when he
attempts to repeal the Fugitive Slave Law. In the latter case you stand
with the Southern disunionist. What of that? You are still right. In
both cases you are right In both cases you expose the dangerous
extremes. In both you stand on the middle ground and hold the ship level
and steady. In both you are national, and nothing less than national.
This is the good old Whig ground. To desert such ground because of any
company is to be less than a Whig, less than a man, less than an
American.
I particularly object to the new position which the avowed principle of
this Nebraska law gives to slavery in the body politic. I object to it
because it assumes that there can be moral right in the enslaving of one
man by another. I object to it as a dangerous dalliance for free
people—a sad evidence that, feeling over-prosperity, we forget right;
that liberty as a principle we have ceased to revere. I object to it
because the Fathers of the Republic eschewed and rejected it. The
argument of "necessity" was the only argument they ever admitted in
favour of slavery, and so far, and so far only as it carried them, did
they ever go. They found the institution existing among us, which they
could not help, and they cast the blame on the British king for having
permitted its introduction. Thus we see the plain, unmistakable spirit
of their age towards slavery was hostility to the principle, and
toleration only by necessity.
But now it is to be transformed into asacred right.... Henceforth it
is to be the chief jewel of the nation,—the very figure-head of the
ship of State. Little by little, but steadily as man's march to the
grave, we have been giving up the old for the new faith. Near eighty
years ago we began by declaring that all men are created equal; but now
from that beginning we have run down to the other declaration, that for
some men to enslave others is a sacred right of self-government. These
principles cannot stand together. They are as opposite as God and
Mammon; and whoever holds to the one must despise the other....
Our Republican robe is soiled and trailed in the dust. Let us purify it.
Let us turn and wash it white in the spirit if not the blood of the
Revolution. Let us turn slavery from its claims of moral right, back
upon its existing legal rights and its arguments of necessity. Let us
return it to the position our fathers gave it, and there let it rest in
peace. Let us re-adopt the Declaration of Independence, and with it the
practices and policy which harmonize with it. Let North and South, let
all Americans, let all lovers of liberty everywhere, join in the great
and good work. If we do this, we shall not only have saved the Union,
but we shall have so saved it as to make and to keep it for ever worthy
of the saving.
My dear Sir, ... You are not a friend of slavery in the abstract. In
that speech you spoke of "the peaceful extinction of slavery" and used
other expressions indicating your belief that the thing was, at some
time, to have an end. Since then we have had thirty-six years of
experience; and this experience has demonstrated, I think, that there is
no peaceful extinction of slavery in prospect for us. The signal failure
of Henry Clay and other good and great men, in 1849, to effect anything
in favour of gradual emancipation in Kentucky, together with a thousand
other signs, extinguishes that hope utterly. On the question of liberty,
as a principle, we are not what we have been. When we were the political
slaves of King George, and wanted to be free, we called the maxim that
"all men are created equal" a self-evident truth; but now when we have
grown fat, and have lost all dread of being slaves ourselves, we have
become so greedy to bemastersthat we call the same maxim "a
self-evident lie." The Fourth of July has not quite dwindled away; it is
still a great day for burning fire-crackers!
That spirit which desired the peaceful extinction of slavery has itself
become extinct with theoccasionand themenof the Revolution.
Under the impulse of that occasion, nearly half the States adopted
systems of emancipation at once; and it is a significant fact that not a
single State has done the like since. So far as peaceful, voluntary
emancipation is concerned, the condition of the negro slave in America,
scarcely less terrible to the contemplation of the free mind, is now as
fixed and hopeless of change for the better as that of the lost souls of
the finally impenitent. The Autocrat of all the Russias will resign his
crown and proclaim his subjects free republicans, sooner than will our
American masters voluntarily give up their slaves.
Our political problem now is, "Can we as a nation continue togetherpermanently—for ever—half slave, and half free?" The problem is too
mighty for me. May God in his mercy superintend the solution.
Your much obliged friend, and humble servant,A. LINCOLN.
You suggest that in political action now, you and I would differ. I
suppose we would; not quite so much, however, as you may think. You know
I dislike slavery, and you fully admit the abstract wrong of it. So far
there is no cause of difference. But you say that sooner than yield your
legal right to the slave, especially at the bidding of those who are not
themselves interested, you would see the Union dissolved. I am not aware
that any one is bidding you yield that right; very certainly I am not. I
leave that matter entirely to yourself. I also acknowledge your rights
and my obligations under the Constitution in regard to your slaves. I
confess I hate to see the poor creatures hunted down and caught and
carried back to their stripes and unrequited toil; but I bite my lips
and keep quiet. In 1841, you and I had together a tedious low-water trip
on a steamboat, from Louisville to St. Louis. You may remember, as I
well do, that from Louisville to the mouth of the Ohio, there were on
board ten or a dozen slaves shackled together with irons. That sight was
a continued torment to me, and I see something like it every time I
touch the Ohio or any other slave border. It is not fair for you to
assume that I have no interest in a thing which has, and continually
exercises, the power of making me miserable. You ought rather to
appreciate how much the great body of the Northern people do crucify
their feelings in order to maintain their loyalty to the Constitution
and the Union. I do oppose the extension of slavery, because my judgment
and feeling so prompt me, and I am under no obligations to the contrary.
If for this you and I must differ, differ we must. You say if you were
President, you would send an army and hang the leaders of the Missouri
outrages upon the Kansas elections; still, if Kansas fairly votes
herself a slave State she must be admitted, or the Union must be
dissolved. But how if she votes herself a slave State unfairly; that
is, by the very means for which you say you would hang men? Must she
still be admitted, or the Union dissolved? That will be the phase of the
question when it first becomes a practical one. In your assumption that
there may be a fair decision of the slavery question in Kansas, I
plainly see that you and I would differ about the Nebraska law. I look
upon that enactment, not as a law, but as a violence from the beginning.
It was conceived in violence, is maintained in violence, and is being
executed in violence. I say it was conceived in violence, because the
destruction of the Missouri Compromise, under the circumstances, was
nothing less than violence. It was passed in violence, because it could
not have passed at all but for the votes of many members in violence of
the known will of their constituents. It is maintained in violence,
because the elections since clearly demand its repeal, and the demand is
openly disregarded.
You say men ought to be hung for the way they are executing the law; I
say that the way it is being executed is quite as good as any of its
antecedents. It is being executed in the precise way which was intended
from the first, else why does no Nebraska man express astonishment or
condemnation? Poor Reeder is the only public man who has been silly
enough to believe that anything like fairness was ever intended, and he
has been bravely undeceived.
That Kansas will form a slave constitution, and with it ask to be
admitted into the Union, I take to be already a settled question, and so
settled by the very means you so pointedly condemn. By every principle
of law ever held by any court North or South, every negro taken to
Kansasisfree; yet in utter disregard of this—in the spirit of
violence merely—that beautiful Legislature gravely passes a law to hang
any man who shall venture to inform a negro of his legal rights. This is
the subject and real object of the law. If, like Haman, they should hang
upon the gallows of their own building, I shall not be among the
mourners for their fate. In my humble sphere, I shall advocate the
restoration of the Missouri Compromise so long as Kansas remains a
Territory; and when, by all these foul means, it seeks to come into the
Union as a slave State, I shall oppose it. I am very loath in any case
to withhold my assent to the enjoyment of property acquired or located
in good faith; but I do not admit that good faith in taking a negro to
Kansas to be held in slavery is a probability with any man. Any man who
has sense enough to be the controller of his own property has too much
sense to misunderstand the outrageous character of the whole Nebraska
business. But I digress. In my opposition to the admission of Kansas, I
shall have some company, but we may be beaten. If we are, I shall not,
on that account, attempt to dissolve the Union. I think it probable,
however, we shall be beaten. Standing as a unit among yourselves, you
can, directly and indirectly, bribe enough of our men to carry the day,
as you could on the open proposition to establish a monarchy. Get hold
of some man in the North whose position and ability are such that he can
make the support of your measure, whatever it may be, a Democratic-party
necessity, and the thing is done. Apropos of this, let me tell you an
anecdote. Douglas introduced the Nebraska Bill in January. In February
afterward, there was a called session of the Illinois Legislature. Of
the one hundred members composing the two branches of that body, about
seventy were Democrats. These latter held a caucus, in which the
Nebraska Bill was talked of, if not formally discussed. It was thereby
discovered that just three, and no more, were in favour of the measure.
In a day or two Douglas's orders came on to have resolutions passed
approving the bill; and they were passed by large majorities! The truth
of this is vouched for by a bolting Democratic member. The masses too,
Democratic as well as Whig, were even nearer unanimous against it; but
as soon as the party necessity of supporting it became apparent, the way
the Democrats began to see the wisdom and justice of it was perfectly
astonishing.
You say that if Kansas fairly votes herself a free State, as a Christian
you will rejoice at it. All decent slaveholders talk that way, and I do
not doubt their candour; but they never vote that way. Although in a
private letter or conversation you will express your preference that
Kansas should be free, you would vote for no man for Congress who would
say the same thing publicly. No such man could be elected from any
district in a slave State. You think Stringfellow and company ought to
be hung.... The slave-breeders and slave-traders are a small, odious,
and detested class among you; and yet in politics they dictate the
course of all of you, and are as completely your masters as you are the
master of your own negroes. You inquire where I now stand. That is a
disputed point. I think I am a Whig; but others say there are no Whigs,
and that I am an Abolitionist. When I was at Washington, I voted for the
Wilmot Proviso as good as forty times; and I never heard of any one
attempting to unwhig me for that. I now do no more than oppose the
extension of slavery. I am not a Know-nothing; that is certain. How
could I be? How can any one who abhors the oppression of negroes be in
favour of degrading classes of white people? Our progress in degeneracy
appears to me to be pretty rapid. As a nation, we began by declaring
thatall men are created equal. We now practically read it,all men
are created equal except negroes. When the Know-nothings get control,
it will read,all men are created equal except negroesand foreigners
and Catholics. When it comes to this, I shall prefer emigrating to some
country where they make no pretence of loving liberty—to Russia, for
instance, where despotism can be taken pure, and without the base alloy
of hypocrisy.... My kindest regards to Mrs. Speed. On the leading
subject of this letter I have more of her sympathy than I have of yours;
and yet let me say I am your friend for ever.
Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen, I was over at [cries of "Platform!" "Take
the platform!"]—I say, that while I was at Danville Court, some of our
friends of anti-Nebraska got together in Springfield and elected me as
one delegate to represent old Sangamon with them in this convention, and
I am here certainly as a sympathizer in this movement and by virtue of
that meeting and selection. But we can hardly be called delegates
strictly, inasmuch as, properly speaking, we represent nobody but
ourselves. I think it altogether fair to say that we have no
anti-Nebraska party in Sangamon, although there is a good deal of
anti-Nebraska feeling there; but I say for myself, and I think I may
speak also for my colleagues, that we who are here fully approve of the
platform and of all that has been done [A voice: "Yes!"]; and even if we
are not regularly delegates, it will be right for me to answer your call
to speak. I suppose we truly stand for the public sentiment of Sangamon
on the great question of the repeal, although we do not yet represent
many numbers who have taken a distinct position on the question.
We are in a trying time—it ranges above mere party—and this movement
to call a halt and turn our steps backward needs all the help and good
counsels it can get; for unless popular opinion makes itself very
strongly felt, and a change is made in our present course,blood will
flow on account of Nebraska, and brother's hand will be raised against
brother! [The last sentence was uttered in such an earnest, impressive,
if not, indeed, tragic, manner, as to make a cold chill creep over me.
Others gave a similar experience.]
I have listened with great interest to the earnest appeal made to
Illinois men by the gentleman from Lawrence [James S. Emery] who has
just addressed us so eloquently and forcibly. I was deeply moved by his
statement of the wrongs done to free-State men out there. I think it
just to say that all true men North should sympathize with them, and
ought to be willing to do any possible and needful thing to right their
wrongs. But we must not promise what we ought not, lest we be called on
to perform what we cannot; we must be calm and moderate, and consider
the whole difficulty, and determine what is possible and just. We must
not be led by excitement and passion to do that which our sober
judgments would not approve in our cooler moments. We have higher aims;
we will have more serious business than to dally with temporary
measures.
We are here to stand firmly for a principle—to stand firmly for a
right. We know that great political and moral wrongs are done, and
outrages committed, and we denounce those wrongs and outrages, although
we cannot, at present, do much more. But we desire to reach out beyond
those personal outrages and establish a rule that will apply to all, and
so prevent any future outrages.
We have seen to-day that every shade of popular opinion is represented
here, withFreedomor ratherFree-Soilas the basis. We have come
together as in some sort representatives of popular opinion against the
extension of slavery into territory now free in fact as well as by law,
and the pledged word of the statesmen of the nation who are now no more.
We come—we are here assembled together—to protest as well as we can
against a great wrong, and to take measures, as well as we now can, to
make that wrong right; to place the nation, as far as it may be possible
now, as it was before the repeal of the Missouri Compromise; and the
plain way to do this is to restore the Compromise, and to demand and
determine thatKansas shall be free![Immense applause.] While we
affirm, and reaffirm, if necessary, our devotion to the principles of
the Declaration of Independence, let our practical work here be limited
to the above. We know that there is not a perfect agreement of sentiment
here on the public questions which might be rightfully considered in
this convention, and that the indignation which we all must feel cannot
be helped; but all of us must give up something for the good of the
cause. There is one desire which is uppermost in the mind, one wish
common to us all—to which no dissent will be made; and I counsel you
earnestly to bury all resentment, to sink all personal feeling, make all
things work to a common purpose in which we are united and agreed about,
and which all present will agree is absolutely necessary—whichmustbe done by any rightful mode if there be such:Slavery must be kept out
of Kansas! [Applause.] The test—the pinch—is right there. If we lose
Kansas to freedom, an example will be set which will prove fatal to
freedom in the end. We, therefore, in the language of theBible, must
"lay the axe to the root of the tree." Temporizing will not do longer;
now is the time for decision—for firm, persistent, resolute action.
[Applause.]
The Nebraska bill, or rather Nebraska law, is not one of wholesome
legislation, but was and is an act of legislative usurpation, whose
result, if not indeed intention, is to make slavery national; and unless
headed off in some effective way, we are in a fair way to see this land
of boasted freedom converted into a land of slavery in fact.
[Sensation.] Just open your two eyes, and see if this be not so. I need
do no more than state, to command universal approval, that almost the
entire North, as well as a large following in the border States, is
radically opposed to the planting of slavery in free territory. Probably
in a popular vote throughout the nation nine-tenths of the voters in the
free States, and at least one-half in the border States, if they could
express their sentiments freely, would vote NO on such an issue; and it
is safe to say that two-thirds of the votes of the entire nation would
be opposed to it. And yet, in spite of this overbalancing of sentiment
in this free country, we are in a fair way to see Kansas present itself
for admission as a slave State. Indeed, it is a felony, by the local law
of Kansas, to deny that slavery exists there even now. By every
principle of law, a negro in Kansas is free; yet theboguslegislature makes it an infamous crime to tell him that he is free!
The party lash and the fear of ridicule will overawe justice and
liberty; for it is a singular fact, but none the less a fact, and well
known by the most common experience, that men will do things under the
terror of the party lash that they would not on any account or for any
consideration do otherwise; while men who will march up to the mouth of
a loaded cannon without shrinking, will run from the terrible name of
"Abolitionist," even when pronounced by a worthless creature whom they,
with good reason, despise. For instance—to press this point a
little—Judge Douglas introduced his anti-Nebraska bill in January; and
we had an extra session of our legislature in the succeeding February,
in which were seventy-five Democrats; and at a party caucus, fully
attended, there were just three votes out of the whole seventy-five, for
the measure. But in a few days orders came on from Washington,
commanding them to approve the measure; the party lash was applied, and
it was brought up again in caucus, and passed by a large majority. The
masses were against it, but party necessity carried it; and it was
passed through the lower house of Congress against the will of the
people, for the same reason. Here is where the greatest danger
lies—that, while we profess to be a government of law and reason, law
will give way to violence on demand of this awful and crushing power.
Like the great Juggernaut—I think that is the name—the great idol, it
crushes everything that comes in its way, and makes a—or as I read
once, in a black-letter law book, "a slave is a human being who is
legally not aperson, but athing." And if the safeguards to liberty
are broken down, as is now attempted, when they have madethingsof
all the free negroes, how long, think you, before they will begin to
makethingsof poor white men? [Applause.] Be not deceived.
Revolutions do not go backward. The founder of the Democratic party
declared thatallmen were created equal. His successor in the
leadership has written the word "white" before men, making it read "allwhitemen are created equal." Pray, will or may not the Know-nothings,
if they should get in power, add the word "protestant," making it read
"all protestant white men"?
Meanwhile the hapless negro is the fruitful subject of reprisals in
other quarters. John Pettit, whom Tom Benton paid his respects to, you
will recollect, calls the immortal Declaration "a self-evident lie;"
while at the birth-place of freedom—in the shadow of Bunker Hill and of
the "cradle of liberty," at the home of the Adamses and Warren and
Otis—Choate, from our side of the house, dares to fritter away the
birthday promise of liberty by proclaiming the Declaration to be "a
string of glittering generalities;" and the Southern Whigs, working hand
in hand with pro-slavery Democrats, are making Choate's theories
practical. Thomas Jefferson, a slaveholder, mindful of the moral element
in slavery, solemnly declared that he "trembled for his country when he
remembered that God is just;" while Judge Douglas, with an insignificant
wave of the hand, "don't care whether slavery is voted up or voted
down." Now, if slavery is right, or even negative, he has a right to
treat it in this trifling manner. But if it is a moral and political
wrong, as all Christendom considers it to be, how can he answer to God
for this attempt to spread and fortify it? [Applause.]
But no man, and Judge Douglas no more than any other, can maintain a
negative, or merely neutral, position on this question; and,
accordingly, he avows that the Union was madebywhite men andforwhite men and their descendants. As matter of fact, the first branch of
the proposition is historically true; the government was made by white
men, and they were and are the superior race. This I admit. But the
corner-stone of the government, so to speak, was the declaration that
"allmen are created equal," and all entitled to "life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness." [Applause.]
And not only so, but the framers of the Constitution were particular to
keep out of that instrument the word "slave," the reason being that
slavery would ultimately come to an end, and they did not wish to have
any reminder that in this free country human beings were ever
prostituted to slavery. [Applause.] Nor is it any argument that we are
superior and the negro inferior—that he has but one talent while we
have ten. Let the negro possess the little he has in independence; if he
has but one talent, he should be permitted to keep the little he has.
[Applause.] But slavery will endure no test of reason or logic; and yet
its advocates, like Douglas, use a sort of bastard logic, or noisy
assumption, it might better be termed, like the above, in order to
prepare the mind for the gradual, but none the less certain,
encroachments of the Moloch of slavery upon, the fair domain of freedom.
But however much you may argue upon it, or smother it in soft phrases,
slavery can only be maintained by force—by violence. The repeal of the
Missouri Compromise was by violence. It was a violation of both law and
the sacred obligations of honour, to overthrow and trample underfoot a
solemn compromise, obtained by the fearful loss to freedom of one of the
fairest of our Western domains. Congress violated the will and
confidence of its constituents in voting for the bill; and while public
sentiment, as shown by the elections of 1854, demanded the restoration
of this compromise, Congress violated its trust by refusing, simply
because it had the force of numbers to hold on to it. And murderous
violence is being used now, in order to force slavery on to Kansas; for
it cannot be done in any other way. [Sensation.]
The necessary result was to establish the rule of violence—force,
instead of the rule of law and reason; to perpetuate and spread slavery,
and, in time, to make it general. We see it at both ends of the line. In
Washington, on the very spot where the outrage was started, the fearless
Sumner is beaten to insensibility, and is now slowly dying; while
senators who claim to be gentlemen and Christians stood by,
countenancing the act, and even applauding it afterward in their places
in the Senate. Even Douglas, our man, saw it all and was within helping
distance, yet let the murderous blows fall unopposed. Then, at the other
end of the line, at the very time Sumner was being murdered, Lawrence
was being destroyed for the crime of Freedom. It was the most prominent
stronghold of liberty in Kansas, and must give way to the all-dominating
power of slavery. Only two days ago, Judge Trumbull found it necessary
to propose a bill in the Senate to prevent a general civil war and to
restore peace in Kansas.
We live in the midst of alarms; anxiety beclouds the future; we expect
some new disaster with each newspaper we read. Are we in a healthful
political state? Are not the tendencies plain? Do not the signs of the
times point plainly the way in which we are going? [Sensation.]
In the early days of the Constitution slavery was recognized, by South
and North alike, as an evil, and the division of sentiment about it was
not controlled by geographical lines or considerations of climate, but
by moral and philanthropic views. Petitions for the abolition of slavery
were presented to the very first Congress by Virginia and Massachusetts
alike. To show the harmony which prevailed, I will state that a fugitive
slave law was passed in 1793, with no dissenting voice in the Senate,
and but seven dissenting votes in the House. It was, however, a wise
law, moderate, and, under the Constitution, a just one. Twenty-five
years later, a more stringent law was proposed and defeated; and
thirty-five years after that, the present law, drafted by Mason of
Virginia, was passed by Northern votes. I am not, just now, complaining
of this law, but I am trying to show how the current sets; for the
proposed law of 1817 was far less offensive than the present one. In
1774 the Continental Congress pledged itself, without a dissenting vote,
to wholly discontinue the slave trade, and to neither purchase nor
import any slave: and less than three months before the passage of the
Declaration of Independence, the same Congress which adopted that
declaration unanimously resolved "thatno slave be imported into any of
the thirteen United Colonies." [Great applause.]
On the second day of July, 1776, the draft of a Declaration of
Independence was reported to Congress by the committee, and in it the
slave trade was characterized as "an execrable commerce," as "a
piratical warfare," as the "opprobrium of infidel powers," and as "a
cruel war against human nature." [Applause.] All agreed on this except
South Carolina and Georgia, and in order to preserve harmony, and from
the necessity of the case, these expressions were omitted. Indeed,
abolition societies existed as far south as Virginia; and it is a
well-known fact that Washington, Jefferson, Madison, Lee, Henry, Mason,
and Pendleton were qualified abolitionists, and much more radical on
that subject than we of the Whig and Democratic parties claim to be
to-day. On March 1, 1784, Virginia ceded to the confederation all its
lands lying northwest of the Ohio River. Jefferson, Chase of Maryland,
and Howell of Rhode Island, as a committee on that and territory
thereafterto be ceded, reported that no slavery should exist after
the year 1800. Had this report been adopted, not only the Northwest, but
Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, and Mississippi also would have been free;
but it required the assent of nine States to ratify it. North Carolina
was divided, and thus its vote was lost; and Delaware, Georgia, and New
Jersey refused to vote. In point of fact, as it was, it was assented to
by six States. Three years later, on a square vote to exclude slavery
from the Northwest, only one vote, and that from New York, was against
it. And yet, thirty-seven years later, five thousand citizens of
Illinois out of a voting mass of less than twelve thousand,
deliberately, after a long and heated contest, voted to introduce
slavery in Illinois; and, to-day, a large party in the free State of
Illinois are willing to vote to fasten the shackles of slavery on the
fair domain of Kansas, notwithstanding it received the dowry of freedom
long before its birth as a political community. I repeat, therefore, the
question, Is it not plain in what direction we are tending? [Sensation.]
In the colonial time, Mason, Pendleton, and Jefferson were as hostile to
slavery in Virginia as Otis, Ames, and the Adamses were in
Massachusetts; and Virginia made as earnest an effort to get rid of it
as old Massachusetts did. But circumstances were against them and they
failed; but not that the good-will of its leading men was lacking. Yet
within less than fifty years Virginia changed its tune, and made
negro-breeding for the cotton and sugar States one of its leading
industries. [Laughter and applause.]
In the Constitutional Convention, George Mason of Virginia made a more
violent abolition speech than my friends Lovejoy or Codding would desire
to make here to-day—a speech which could not be safely repeated
anywhere on Southern soil in this enlightened year. But while there were
some differences of opinion on this subject even then, discussion was
allowed; but as you see by the Kansas slave code, which, as you know, is
the Missouri slave code, merely ferried across the river, it is a felony
to even express an opinion hostile to that foul blot in the land of
Washington and the Declaration of Independence. [Sensation.]
In Kentucky—my State—in 1849, on a test vote, the mighty influence of
Henry Clay and many other good men there could not get a symptom of
expression in favour of gradual emancipation on a plain issue of
marching toward the light of civilization with Ohio and Illinois; but
the State of Boone and Hardin and Henry Clay, with aniggerunder each
arm, took the black trail toward the deadly swamps of barbarism. Is
there—can there be—any doubt about this thing? And is there any doubt
that we must all lay aside our prejudices and march, shoulder to
shoulder, in the great army of Freedom? [Applause.]
Every Fourth of July our young orators all proclaim this to be "the land
of thefreeand the home of the brave!" Well, now, when you orators
get that off next year, and, may be, this very year, how would you like
some old grizzled farmer to get up in the grove and deny it? [Laughter.]
How would you like that? But suppose Kansas comes in as a slave State,
and all the "border ruffians" have barbecues about it, and free-State
men come trailing back to the dishonoured North, like whipped dogs with
their tails between their legs, it is—ain't it?—evident that this is
no more the "land of the free;" and if we let it go so, we won't dare to
say "home of the brave" out loud. [Sensation and confusion.]
Can any man doubt that, even in spite of the people's will, slavery will
triumph through violence, unless that will be made manifest and
enforced? Even Governor Reeder claimed at the outset that the contest in
Kansas was to be fair, but he got his eyes open at last; and I believe
that, as a result of this moral and physical violence, Kansas will soon
apply for admission as a slave State. And yet we can't mistake that the
people don't want it so, and that it is a land which is free both by
natural and political law.No law is free law!Such is the
understanding of all Christendom. In the Somerset case, decided nearly a
century ago, the great Lord Mansfield held that slavery was of such a
nature that it must take its rise inpositive(as distinguished fromnatural) law; and that in no country or age could it be traced back to
any other source. Will some one please tell me where is thepositivelaw that establishes slavery in Kansas? [A voice: "Theboguslaws."]
Aye, theboguslaws! And, on the same principle, a gang of Missouri
horse-thieves could come into Illinois and declare horse-stealing to be
legal [Laughter], and it would be just as legal as slavery is in Kansas.
But by express statute, in the land of Washington and Jefferson, we may
soon be brought face to face with the discreditable fact of showing to
the world by our acts that we prefer slavery to freedom—darkness to
light! [Sensation.]
It is, I believe, a principle in law that when one party to a contract
violates it so grossly as to chiefly destroy the object for which it is
made, the other party may rescind it. I will ask Browning if that ain't
good law. [Voices: "Yes!"] Well, now if that be right, I go for
rescinding the whole, entire Missouri Compromise and thus turning
Missouri into a free State; and I should like to know the
difference—should like for any one to point out the difference—betweenourmaking a free State of Missouri andtheirmaking a slave State
of Kansas. [Great applause.] There ain't one bit of difference, except
that our way would be a great mercy to humanity. But I have never
said—and the Whig party has never said—and those who oppose the
Nebraska bill do not as a body say, that they have any intention of
interfering with slavery in the slave States. Our platform says just the
contrary. We allow slavery to exist in the slave States—not because
slavery is right or good, but from the necessities of our Union. We
grant a fugitive slave law because it is so "nominated in the bond;"
because our fathers so stipulated—had to—and we are bound to carry out
this agreement. But they did not agree to introduce slavery in regions
where it did not previously exist. On the contrary, they said by their
example and teachings that they did not deem it expedient—did not
consider it right—to do so; and it is wise and right to do just as they
did about it [Voices: "Good!"], and that is what we propose—not to
interfere with slavery where it exists (we have never tried to do it),
and to give them a reasonable and efficient fugitive slave law. [A
voice: "No!"] I say YES! [Applause.] It was part of the bargain, and I'm
for living up to it; but I go no further; I'm not bound to do more, and
I won't agree any further. [Great applause.]
We, here in Illinois, should feel especially proud of the provision of
the Missouri Compromise excluding slavery from what is now Kansas; for
an Illinois man, Jesse B. Thomas, was its father. Henry Clay, who is
credited with the authorship of the Compromise in general terms, did not
even vote for that provision, but only advocated the ultimate admission
by a second compromise; and, Thomas was, beyond all controversy, the
real author of the "slavery restriction" branch of the Compromise. To
show the generosity of the Northern members toward the Southern side; on
a test vote to exclude slavery from Missouri, ninety voted not to
exclude, and eighty-seven to exclude, every vote from the slave States
being ranged with the former and fourteen votes from the free States,
of whom seven were from New England alone; while on a vote to exclude
slavery from what is now Kansas, the vote was one hundred and
thirty-fourforto forty-twoagainst. The scheme, as a whole, was,
of course, a Southern triumph. It is idle to contend otherwise, as is
now being done by the Nebraskaites; it was so shown by the votes and
quite as emphatically by the expressions of representative men. Mr.
Lowndes of South Carolina was never known to commit a political mistake;
his was the great judgment of that section; and he declared that this
measure "would restore tranquillity to the country—a result demanded by
every consideration of discretion, of moderation, of wisdom, and of
virtue." When the measure came before President Monroe for his approval,
he put to each member of his cabinet this question: "Has Congress the
constitutional power to prohibit slavery in a territory?" And John C.
Calhoun and William H. Crawford from the South, equally with John Quincy
Adams, Benjamin Rush, and Smith Thompson from the North, alike answered,
"Yes!" without qualification or equivocation; and this measure, of so
great consequence to the South, was passed; and Missouri was, by means
of it, finally enabled to knock at the door of the Republic for an open
passage to its brood of slaves. And, in spite of this, Freedom's share
is about to be taken by violence—by the force of misrepresentative
votes, not called for by the popular will. What name can I, in common
decency, give to this wicked transaction? [Sensation.]
But even then the contest was not over; for when the Missouri
constitution came before Congress for its approval, it forbade any free
negro or mulatto from entering the State. In short, our Illinois "black
laws" were hidden away in their constitution [Laughter], and the
controversy was thus revived. Then it was that Mr. Clay's talents shone
out conspicuously, and the controversy that shook the Union to its
foundation was finally settled to the satisfaction of the conservative
parties on both sides of the line, though not to the extremists on
either, and Missouri was admitted by the small majority of six in the
lower House. How great a majority, do you think, would have been given
had Kansas also been secured for slavery? [A voice: "A majority the
other way."] "A majority the other way," is answered. Do you think it
would have been safe for a Northern man to have confronted his
constituents after having voted to consign both Missouri and Kansas to
hopeless slavery? And yet this man Douglas, who misrepresents his
constituents, and who has exerted his highest talents in that direction,
will be carried in triumph through the State, and hailed with honour
while applauding that act. [Three groans for "Dug!"] And this shows
whither we are tending. This thing of slavery is more powerful than its
supporters—even than the high priests that minister at its altar. It
debauches even our greatest men. It gathers strength, like a rolling
snow-ball, by its own infamy. Monstrous crimes are committed in its name
by persons collectively which they would not dare to commit as
individuals. Its aggressions and encroachments almost surpass belief. In
a despotism, one might not wonder to see slavery advance steadily and
remorselessly into new dominions; but is it not wonderful, is it not
even alarming, to see its steady advance in a land dedicated to the
proposition that "all men are created equal"? [Sensation.]
It yields nothing itself; it keeps all it has, and gets all it can
besides. It really came dangerously near securing Illinois in 1824; it
did get Missouri in 1821. The first proposition was to admit what is now
ArkansasandMissouri as one slave State. But the territory was
divided, and Arkansas came in, without serious question, as a slave
State; and afterward Missouri, not as a sort of equality,free, but
also as a slave State. Then we had Florida and Texas; and now Kansas is
about to be forced into the dismal procession. [Sensation.] And so it is
wherever you look. We have not forgotten—it is but six years since—how
dangerously near California came to being a slave State. Texas is a
slave State, and four other slave States may be carved from its vast
domain. And yet, in the year 1829, slavery was abolished throughout
that vast region by a royal decree of the then sovereign of Mexico. Will
you please tell me by whatrightslavery exists in Texas to-day? By
the same right as, and no higher or greater than, slavery is seeking
dominion in Kansas: by political force—peaceful, if that will suffice;
by the torch (as in Kansas) and the bludgeon (as in the Senate chamber),
if required. And so history repeats itself; and even as slavery has kept
its course by craft, intimidation, and violence in the past, so it will
persist, in my judgment, until met and dominated by the will of a people
bent on its restriction.
We have, this very afternoon, heard bitter denunciations of Brooks in
Washington, and Titus, Stringfellow, Atchison, Jones, and Shannon in
Kansas—the battle-ground of slavery. I certainly am not going to
advocate or shield them; but they and their acts are but the necessary
outcome of the Nebraska law. We should reserve our highest censure for
the authors of the mischief, and not for the catspaws which they use. I
believe it was Shakespeare who said, "Where the offence lies, there let
the axe fall;" and, in my opinion, this man Douglas and the Northern men
in Congress who advocate "Nebraska" are more guilty than a thousand
Joneses and Stringfellows, with all their murderous practices, can be.
[Applause.]
We have made a good beginning here to-day. As our Methodist friends
would say, "I feel it is good to be here." While extremists may find
some fault with the moderation of our platform, they should recollect
that "the battle is not always to the strong, nor the race to the
swift." In grave emergencies, moderation is generally safer than
radicalism: and as this struggle is likely to be long and earnest, we
must not, by our action, repel any who are in sympathy with us in the
main, but rather win all that we can to our standard. We must not
belittle nor overlook the facts of our condition—that we are new and
comparatively weak, while our enemies are entrenched and relatively
strong. They have the administration and the political power; and, right
or wrong, at present they have the numbers. Our friends who urge an
appeal to arms with so much force and eloquence, should recollect that
the government is arrayed against us, and that the numbers are now
arrayed against us as well; or, to state it nearer to the truth, they
are not yet expressly and affirmatively for us; and we should repel
friends rather than gain them by anything savouring of revolutionary
methods. As it now stands, we must appeal to the sober sense and
patriotism of the people. We will make converts day by day; we will grow
strong by calmness and moderation; we will grow strong by the violence
and injustice of our adversaries. And, unless truth be a mockery and
justice a hollow lie, we will be in the majority after a while, and then
the revolution which we will accomplish will be none the less radical
from being the result of pacific measures. The battle of freedom is to
be fought out on principle. Slavery is a violation of the eternal right.
We have temporized with it from the necessities of our condition; butas sure as God reigns and school children read, THAT BLACK FOUL LIE
CAN NEVER BE CONSECRATED INTO GOD'S HALLOWED TRUTH! [Immense applause
lasting some time.] One of our greatest difficulties is, that men whoknowthat slavery is a detestable crime and ruinous to the nation, are
compelled, by our peculiar condition and other circumstances, to
advocate it concretely, though damning it in the raw. Henry Clay was a
brilliant example of this tendency; others of our purest statesmen are
compelled to do so; and thus slavery secures actual support from those
who detest it at heart. Yet Henry Clay perfected and forced through the
Compromise which secured to slavery a great State as well as a political
advantage. Not that he hated slavery less, but that he loved the whole
Union more. As long as slavery profited by his great Compromise, the
hosts of pro-slavery could not sufficiently cover him with praise; but
now that this Compromise stands in their way—
They have slaughtered one of his most cherished measures, and his ghost
would arise to rebuke them. [Great applause.]
Now, let us harmonize, my friends, and appeal to the moderation and
patriotism of the people: to the sober second thought; to the awakened
public conscience. The repeal of the sacred Missouri Compromise has
installed the weapons of violence: the bludgeon, the incendiary torch,
the death-dealing rifle, the bristling cannon—the weapons of kingcraft,
of the inquisition, of ignorance, of barbarism, of oppression. We see
its fruits in the dying bed of the heroic Sumner; in the ruins of the
"Free State" hotel; in the smoking embers of theHerald of Freedom; in
the free-State Governor of Kansas chained to a stake on freedom's soil
like a horse-thief, for the crime of freedom. [Applause.] We see it in
Christian statesmen, and Christian newspapers, and Christian pulpits,
applaudingthe cowardly act of a low bully, WHO CRAWLED UPON HIS
VICTIM BEHIND HIS BACK AND DEALT THE DEADLY BLOW. [Sensation and
applause.] We note our political demoralization in the catch-words that
are coming into such common use; on the one hand, "freedom-shriekers,"
and sometimes "freedom-screechers" [Laughter]; and, on the other hand,
"border ruffians," and that fully deserved. And the significance of
catch-words cannot pass unheeded, for they constitute a sign of the
times. Everything in this world "jibes" in with everything else, and all
the fruits of this Nebraska bill are like the poisoned source from which
they come. I will not say that we may not sooner or later be compelled
to meet force by force; but the time has not yet come, and if we are
true to ourselves, may never come. Do not mistake that the ballot is
stronger than the bullet. Therefore let the legions of slavery use
bullets; but let us wait patiently till November, and fire ballots at
them in return; and by that peaceful policy, I believe we shall
ultimately win. [Applause.]
It was by that policy that here in Illinois the early fathers fought the
good fight and gained the victory. In 1824 the free men of our State,
led by Governor Coles (who was a native of Maryland and President
Madison's private secretary), determined that those beautiful groves
should never re-echo the dirge of one who has no title to himself. By
their resolute determination, the winds that sweep across our broad
prairies shall never cool the parched brow, nor shall the unfettered
streams that bring joy and gladness to our free soil water the tired
feet, of aslave; but so long as those heavenly breezes and sparkling
streams bless the land, or the groves and their fragrance or their
memory remain, the humanity to which they minister SHALL BE FOR EVER
FREE! [Great applause.] Palmer, Yates, Williams, Browning, and some more
in this convention came from Kentucky to Illinois (instead of going to
Missouri), not only to better their conditions, but also to get away
from slavery. They have said so to me, and it is understood among us
Kentuckians that we don't like it one bit. Now, can we, mindful of the
blessings of liberty which the early men of Illinois left to us, refuse
a like privilege to the free men who seek to plant Freedom's banner on
our Western outposts? ["No! No!"] Should we not stand by our neighbours
who seek to better their conditions in Kansas and Nebraska? ["Yes!
Yes!"] Can we as Christian men, and strong and free ourselves, wield the
sledge or hold the iron which is to manacle anew an already oppressed
race? ["No! No!"] "Woe unto them," it is written, "that decree
unrighteous decrees and that write grievousness which they have
prescribed." Can we afford to sin any more deeply against human liberty?
["No! No!"]
One great trouble in the matter is, that slavery is an insidious and
crafty power, and gains equally by open violence of the brutal as well
as by sly management of the peaceful. Even after the ordinance of 1787,
the settlers in Indiana and Illinois (it was all one government then)
tried to get Congress to allow slavery temporarily, and petitions to
that end were sent from Kaskaskia, and General Harrison, the Governor,
urged it from Vincennes the capital. If that had succeeded, good-bye to
liberty here. But John Randolph of Virginia made a vigorous report
against it; and although they persevered so well as to get three
favourable reports for it, yet the United States Senate, with the aid of
some slave States, finallysquelchedit for good. [Applause.] And that
is why this hall is to-day a temple for free men instead of a negro
livery stable. [Great applause and laughter.] Once let slavery get
planted in a locality, by ever so weak or doubtful a title, and in ever
so small numbers, and it is like the Canada thistle or Bermuda
grass—you can't root it out. You yourself may detest slavery; but your
neighbour has five or six slaves, and he is an excellent neighbour, or
your son has married his daughter, and they beg you to help save their
property, and you vote against your interest and principles to
accommodate a neighbour, hoping that your vote will be on the losing
side. And others do the same; and in those ways slavery gets a sure
foothold. And when that is done the whole mighty Union—the force of the
nation—is committed to its support. And that very process is working in
Kansas to-day. And you must recollect that the slave property is worth a
billion of dollars ($1,000,000,000); while free-State men must work for
sentiment alone. Then there are "blue lodges"—as they call
them—everywhere doing their secret and deadly work.
It is a very strange thing, and not solvable by any moral law that I
know of, that if a man loses his horse, the whole country will turn out
to help hang the thief; but if a man but a shade or two darker than I am
is himself stolen, the same crowd will hang one who aids in restoring
him to liberty. Such are the inconsistencies of slavery, where a horse
is more sacred than a man; and the essence ofsquatteror popular
sovereignty—I don't care how you call it—is that if one man chooses to
make a slave of another, no third man shall be allowed to object. And if
you can do this in free Kansas, and it is allowed to stand, the next
thing you will see is ship-loads of negroes from Africa at the wharf at
Charleston; for one thing is as truly lawful as the other; and these
are the bastard notions we have got to stamp out, else they will stamp
us out. [Sensation and applause.]
Two years ago, at Springfield, Judge Douglas avowed that Illinois came
into the Union as a slave State, and that slavery was weeded out by the
operation of his great, patent, everlasting principle of "popular
sovereignty." [Laughter.] Well, now, that argument must be answered, for
it has a little grain of truth at the bottom. I do not mean that it is
true in essence, as he would have us believe. It could not be
essentially true if the ordinance of '87 was valid. But, in point of
fact, there were some degraded beings called slaves in Kaskaskia and the
other French settlements when our first State constitution was adopted;
that is a fact, and I don't deny it. Slaves were brought here as early
as 1720, and were kept here in spite of the ordinance of 1787 against
it. But slavery did not thrive here. On the contrary, under the
influence of the ordinance, the numberdecreasedfifty-one from 1810
to 1820; while under the influence ofsquattersovereignty, right
across the river in Missouri, theyincreasedseven thousand two
hundred and eleven in the same time; and slavery finally faded out in
Illinois, under the influence of the law of freedom, while it grew
stronger and stronger in Missouri, under the law or practice of "popular
sovereignty." In point of fact there were but one hundred and seventeen
slaves in Illinois one year after its admission, or one to every four
hundred and seventy of its population; or, to state it in another way,
if Illinois was a slave State in 1820, so were New York and New Jersey
much greater slave States from having had greater numbers, slavery
having been established there in very early times. But there is this
vital difference between all these States and the judge's Kansas
experiment: that they sought to disestablish slavery which had been
already established, while the judge seeks, so far as he can, to
disestablish freedom, which had been established there by the Missouri
Compromise. [Voices: "Good!"]
The Union is undergoing a fearful strain; but it is a stout old ship,
and has weathered many a hard blow, and "the stars in their courses,"
aye, an invisible power, greater than the puny efforts of men, will
fight for us. But we ourselves must not decline the burden of
responsibility, nor take counsel of unworthy passions. Whatever duty
urges us to do or to omit, must be done or omitted; and the recklessness
with which our adversaries break the laws, or counsel their violation,
should afford no example for us. Therefore, let us revere the
Declaration of Independence; let us continue to obey the Constitution
and the laws; let us keep step to the music of the Union. Let us draw a
cordon, so to speak, around the slave States, and the hateful
institution, like a reptile poisoning itself, will perish by its own
infamy. [Applause.]
But we cannot be free men if this is, by our national choice, to be a
land of slavery. Those who deny freedom to others, deserve it not for
themselves; and, under the rule of a just God, cannot long retain it.
[Loud applause.]
Did you ever, my friends, seriously reflect upon the speed with which we
are tending downward? Within the memory of men now present the leading
statesmen of Virginia could make genuine, red-hot abolitionist speeches
in old Virginia; and, as I have said, now even in "free Kansas" it is a
crime to declare that it is "free Kansas." The very sentiments that I
and others have just uttered would entitle us, and each of us, to the
ignominy and seclusion of a dungeon; and yet I suppose that, like Paul,
we were "free born." But if this thing is allowed to continue, it will
be but one step further to impress the same rule in Illinois.
[Sensation.]
The conclusion of all is, that we must restore the Missouri Compromise.
We must highly resolve thatKansas must be free! [Great applause.] We
must reinstate the birthday promise of the Republic; we must reaffirm
the Declaration of Independence; we must make good in essence as well as
in form Madison's vowal that "the wordslaveought not to appear in
the Constitution;" and we must even go further, and decree that only
local law, and not that time-honoured instrument, shall shelter a
slave-holder. We must make this a land of liberty in fact, as it is in
name. But in seeking to attain these results—so indispensable if the
liberty which is our pride and boast shall endure—we will be loyal to
the Constitution and to the "flag of our Union," and no matter what our
grievance—even though Kansas shall come in as a slave State; and no
matter what theirs—even if we shall restore the Compromise—WE WILL SAY
TO THE SOUTHERN DISUNIONISTS, WE WON'T GO OUT OF THE UNION, AND YOU
SHAN'T!!! [This was the climax; the audience rose to its feeten
masse, applauded, stamped, waved handkerchiefs, threw hats in the air,
and ran riot for several minutes. The arch-enchanter who wrought this
transformation looked, meanwhile, like the personification of political
justice.]
But let us, meanwhile, appeal to the sense and patriotism of the people,
and not to their prejudices; let us spread the floods of enthusiasm here
aroused all over these vast prairies, so suggestive of freedom. Let us
commence by electing the gallant soldier Governor (Colonel) Bissell who
stood for the honour of our State alike on the plains and amidst the
chaparral of Mexico and on the floor of Congress, while he defied the
Southern Hotspur; and that will have a greater moral effect than all the
border ruffians can accomplish in all their raids on Kansas. There is
both a power and a magic in popular opinion. To that let us now appeal;
and while, in all probability, no resort to force will be needed, our
moderation and forbearance will stand us in good stead when, if ever, WE
MUST MAKE AN APPEAL TO BATTLE AND TO THE GOD OF HOSTS!! [Immense
applause and a rush for the orator.]
This speech has been called Lincoln's "Lost Speech," because all the
reporters present were so carried away by his eloquence that they one
and all forgot to take any notes. If it had not been for a young lawyer,
a Mr. H.C. Whitney, who kept his head sufficiently to take notes, we
would have no record of it. Mr. Whitney wrote out the speech for
McClure's Magazine in 1896. It was submitted to several people who were
present at the Bloomington Convention, and they said it was remarkably
accurate considering that it was not taken down stenographically.
... And now as to the Dred Scott decision. That decision declares two
propositions,—first, that a negro cannot sue in the United States
courts; and secondly, that Congress cannot prohibit slavery in the
Territories. It was made by a divided court,—dividing differently on
the different points. Judge Douglas does not discuss the merits of the
decision, and in that respect I shall follow his example, believing I
could no more improve on McLean and Curtis than he could on Taney.
He denounces all who question the correctness of that decision, as
offering violent resistance to it. But who resists it? Who has, in spite
of the decision, declared Dred Scott free, and resisted the authority of
his master over him?
Judicial decisions have two uses: first, to absolutely determine the
case decided; and secondly, to indicate to the public how other similar
cases will be decided when they arise. For the latter use, they are
called "precedents" and "authorities."
We believe as much as Judge Douglas (perhaps more) in obedience to and
respect for the judicial department of government. We think its
decisions on constitutional questions, when fully settled, should
control not only the particular cases decided, but the general policy of
the country, subject to be disturbed only by amendments of the
Constitution, as provided in that instrument itself. More than this
would be revolution. But we think the Dred Scott decision is erroneous.
We know the court that made it has often overruled its own decisions,
and we shall do what we can to have it overrule this. We offer no
resistance to it.
Judicial decisions are of greater or less authority as precedents
according to circumstances. That this should be so, accords both with
common-sense and the customary understanding of the legal profession.
If this important decision had been made by the unanimous concurrence of
the judges, and without any apparent partisan bias, and in accordance
with legal public expectation, and with the steady practice of the
departments throughout our history, and had been in no part based on
assumed historical facts, which are not really true; or if wanting in
some of these, it had been before the court more than once, and had
there been affirmed and reaffirmed through a course of years,—it then
might be, perhaps would be factious, nay, even revolutionary, not to
acquiesce in it as a precedent.
But when, as is true, we find it wanting in all these claims to the
public confidence, it is not resistance, it is not factious, it is not
even disrespectful to treat it as not having yet quite established a
settled doctrine for the country.
I have said in substance, that the Dred Scott decision was in part based
on assumed historical facts which were not really true, and I ought not
to leave the subject without giving some reasons for saying this, I
therefore give an instance or two, which I think fully sustain me. Chief
Justice Taney, in delivering the opinion of the majority of the court,
insists at great length that negroes were no part of the people who
made, or for whom was made, the Declaration of Independence, or the
Constitution of the United States.
On the contrary, Judge Curtis, in his dissenting opinion, shows that in
five of the then thirteen States—to wit, New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
New York, New Jersey, and North Carolina—free negroes were voters, and
in proportion to their numbers had the same part in making the
Constitution that the white people had. He shows this with so much
particularity as to leave no doubt of its truth; and as a sort of
conclusion on that point, holds the following language:
"The Constitution was ordained and established by the people of the
     United States, through the action, in each State, of those persons
     who were qualified by its laws to act thereon in behalf of
     themselves and all other citizens of the State. In some of the
     States, as we have seen, coloured persons were among those
     qualified by law to act on the subject. These coloured persons were
     not only included in the body of 'the people of the United States'
     by whom the Constitution was ordained and established; but in at
     least five of the States they had the power to act, and doubtless
     did act, by their suffrages, upon the question of its adoption."
"It is difficult at this day to realize the state of public
     opinion, in relation to that unfortunate race, which prevailed in
     the civilized and enlightened portions of the world at the time of
     the Declaration of Independence, and when the Constitution of the
     United States was framed and adopted."
And again, after quoting from the Declaration, he says:
"The general words above quoted would seem to include the whole
     human family, and if they were used in a similar instrument at this
     day, would be so understood."
In these the Chief Justice does not directly assert, but plainly assumes
as a fact, that the public estimate of the black man is more favourable
now than it was in the days of the Revolution. This assumption is a
mistake. In some trifling particulars the condition of that race has
been ameliorated; but as a whole, in this country, the change between
then and now is decidedly the other way; and their ultimate destiny has
never appeared so hopeless as in the last three or four years. In two
of the five States—New Jersey and North Carolina—that then gave the
free negro the right of voting, the right has since been taken away; and
in a third—New York—it has been greatly abridged: while it has not
been extended, so far as I know, to a single additional State, though
the number of the States has more than doubled. In those days, as I
understand, masters could, at their own pleasure, emancipate their
slaves; but since then such legal restraints have been made upon
emancipation as to amount almost to prohibition. In those days
legislatures held the unquestioned power to abolish slavery in their
respective States; but now it is becoming quite fashionable for State
constitutions to withhold that power from the legislatures. In those
days, by common consent, the spread of the black man's bondage to the
new countries was prohibited; but now Congress decides that it will not
continue the prohibition, and the Supreme Court decides that it could
not if it would. In those days our Declaration of Independence was held
sacred by all, and thought to include all; but now, to aid in making the
bondage of the negro universal and eternal, it is assailed and sneered
at, and construed, and hawked at, and torn, till, if its framers could
rise from their graves, they could not at all recognize it. All the
powers of earth seem rapidly combining against him. Mammon is after him;
ambition follows, philosophy follows, and the theology of the day is
fast joining in the cry. They have him in his prison-house; they have
searched his person, and left no prying instrument with him. One after
another they have closed the heavy iron doors upon him; and now they
have him, as it were, bolted in with a lock of a hundred keys, which can
never be unlocked without the concurrence of every key; the keys in the
hands of a hundred different men, and they scattered to a hundred
different and distant places; and they stand musing as to what
invention, in all the dominions of mind and matter, can be produced to
make the impossibility of escape more complete than it is. It is
grossly incorrect to say or assume that the public estimate of the negro
is more favourable now than it was at the origin of the government.
... There is a natural disgust in the minds of nearly all white people
at the idea of an indiscriminate amalgamation of the white and black
races; and Judge Douglas evidently is basing his chief hope upon the
chances of his being able to appropriate the benefit of this disgust to
himself. If he can, by much drumming and repeating, fasten the odium of
that idea upon his adversaries, he thinks he can struggle through the
storm. He therefore clings to this hope as a drowning man to the last
plank. He makes an occasion for lugging it in from the opposition to the
Dred Scott decision. He finds the Republicans insisting that the
Declaration of Independence includesallmen, black as well as white;
and forthwith he boldly denies that it includes negroes at all, and
proceeds to argue gravely that all who contend it does, do so only
because they want to vote, and eat, and sleep, and marry with negroes!
He will have it that they cannot be consistent else. Now I protest
against the counterfeit logic which concludes that because I do not want
a black woman for a slave, I must necessarily want her for a wife. I
need not have her for either. I can just leave her alone. In some
respects she certainly is not my equal; but in her natural right to eat
the bread she earns with her own hands without asking leave of any one
else, she is my equal, and the equal of all others.
Chief Justice Taney, in his opinion in the Dred Scott case, admits that
the language of the Declaration is broad enough to include the whole
human family; but he and Judge Douglas argue that the authors of that
instrument did not intend to include negroes, by the fact that they did
not at once actually place them on an equality with the whites. Now this
grave argument comes to just nothing at all, by the other fact that they
did not at once, nor ever afterward, actually place all white people on
an equality with one another. And this is the staple argument of both
the Chief Justice and the senator, for doing this obvious violence to
the plain, unmistakable language of the Declaration.
I think the authors of that notable instrument intended to includeallmen, but they did not intend to declare all men equalin all respects.
They did not mean to say that all were equal in colour, size, intellect,
moral developments, or social capacity. They defined with tolerable
distinctness in what respects they did consider all men created
equal,—equal with "certain inalienable rights, among which are life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." This they said, and this they
meant. They did not mean to assert the obvious untruth that all were
then actually enjoying that equality, nor yet that they were about to
confer it immediately upon them. In fact, they had no power to confer
such a boon. They meant simply to declare the right, so that the
enforcement of it might follow as fast as circumstances should permit.
They meant to set up a standard maxim for free society, which should be
familiar to all and revered by all,—constantly looked to, constantly
laboured for, and, even though never perfectly attained, constantly
approximated, and thereby constantly spreading and deepening its
influence, and augmenting the happiness and value of life to all people
of all colours everywhere. The assertion that "all men are created
equal," was of no practical use in effecting our separation from Great
Britain; and it was placed in the Declaration, not for that, but for
future use. Its authors meant it to be as, thank God, it is now proving
itself, a stumbling-block to all those who in after times might seek to
turn a free people back into the hateful paths of despotism. They knew
the proneness of prosperity to breed tyrants, and they meant, when such
should reappear in this fair land and commence their vocation, that they
should find left for them at least one hard nut to crack.
I have now briefly expressed my view of the meaning and object of that
part of the Declaration of Independence which declares that all men are
created equal. Now let us hear Judge Douglas's view of the same
subject, as I find it in the printed report of his late speech. Here it
is:
"No man can vindicate the character, motives and conduct of the
     signers of the Declaration of Independence except upon the
     hypothesis that they referred to the white race alone, and not to
     the African, when they declared all men to have been created equal;
     that they were speaking of British subjects on this continent being
     equal to British subjects born and residing in Great Britain; that
     they were entitled to the same inalienable rights, and among them
     were enumerated life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. The
     Declaration was adopted for the purpose of justifying the colonists
     in the eyes of the civilized world in withdrawing their allegiance
     from the British crown, and dissolving their connection with the
     mother-country."
My good friends, read that carefully over some leisure hour, and ponder
well upon it; see what a mere wreck and mangled ruin Judge Douglas makes
of our once glorious Declaration. He says "they were speaking of British
subjects on this continent being equal to British subjects born and
residing in Great Britain!" Why, according to this, not only negroes but
white people outside of Great Britain and America were not spoken of in
that instrument. The English, Irish, and Scotch, along with white
Americans, were included, to be sure; but the French, Germans, and other
white people of the world are all gone to pot along with the Judge's
inferior races!
I had thought that the Declaration promised something better than the
condition of British subjects; but no, it only meant that we should be
equal to them in their own oppressed and unequal condition. According to
that, it gave no promise that, having kicked off the king and lords of
Great Britain, we should not at once be saddled with a king and lords of
our own.
I had thought the Declaration contemplated the progressive improvement
in the condition of all men, everywhere; but no, it merely "was adopted
for the purpose of justifying the colonists in the eyes of the
civilized world in withdrawing their allegiance from the British crown,
and dissolving their connection with the mother-country." Why, that
object having been effected some eighty years ago, the Declaration is of
no practical use now—mere rubbish—old wadding, left to rot on the
battle-field after the victory is won.
I understand you are preparing to celebrate the "Fourth," to-morrow
week. What for? The doings of that day had no reference to the present;
and quite half of you are not even descendants of those who were
referred to at that day. But I suppose you will celebrate, and will even
go so far as to read the Declaration. Suppose, after you read it once in
the old-fashioned way, you read it once more with Judge Douglas's
version. It will then run thus: "We told these truths to be
self-evident, that all British subjects who were on this continent
eighty-one years ago, were created equal to all British subjects born
and then residing in Great Britain!"
... The very Dred Scott case affords a strong test as to which party
most favours amalgamation, the Republicans or the dear Union-saving
Democracy. Dred Scott, his wife and two daughters, were all involved in
the suit. We desired the court to have held that they were citizens, so
far at least as to entitle them to a hearing as to whether they were
free or not; and then also, that they were in fact and in law really
free. Could we have had our way, the chances of these black girls ever
mixing their blood with that of white people would have been diminished
at least to the extent that it could not have been without their
consent. But Judge Douglas is delighted to have them decided to be
slaves, and not human enough to have a hearing, even if they were free,
and thus left subject to the forced concubinage of their masters, and
liable to become the mothers of mulattoes in spite of themselves,—the
very state of the case that produces nine-tenths of all the mulattoes,
all the mixing of the blood of the nation.
If we could first know where we are, and whither we are tending, we
could better judge what to do, and how to do it. We are now far into the
fifth year since a policy was initiated with the avowed object and
confident promise of putting an end to slavery agitation. Under the
operation of that policy, that agitation has not only not ceased, but
has constantly augmented. In my opinion it will not cease until a crisis
shall have been reached and passed. "A house divided against itself
cannot stand." I believe this government cannot endure permanently, half
slave and half free. I do not expect the Union to be dissolved,—I do
not expect the house to fall; but I do expect it will cease to be
divided. It will become all one thing, or all the other. Either the
opponents of slavery will arrest the further spread of it, and place it
where the public mind shall rest in the belief that it is in the course
of ultimate extinction; or its advocates will push it forward till it
shall become alike lawful in all the States, old as well as new, North
as well as South.
Have we no tendency to the latter condition? Let any one who doubts,
carefully contemplate that now almost complete legal combination—piece
of machinery, so to speak—compounded of the Nebraska doctrine and the
Dred Scott decision. Let him consider not only what work the machinery
is adapted to do, and how well adapted; but also let him study the
history of its construction, and trace, if he can, or rather fail, if he
can, to trace the evidences of design and concert of action among its
chief architects from the beginning.
The new year of 1854 found slavery excluded from more than half the
States by State constitutions, and from most of the national territory
by congressional prohibition. Four days later commenced the struggle
which ended in repealing that congressional prohibition. This opened all
the national territory to slavery, and was the first point gained.
But so far, Congress only had acted; and an indorsement by the people,
real or apparent, was indispensable to save the point already gained and
give chance for more.
This necessity had not been overlooked, but had been provided for, as
well as might be, in the notable argument ofSquatter Sovereignty,
otherwise calledsacred right of self-government, which latter phrase,
though expressive of the only rightful basis of any government, was so
perverted in this attempted use of it, as to amount to just this: That
if any one man choose to enslave another, no third man shall be allowed
to object. That argument was incorporated into the Nebraska bill itself,
in the language which follows: "It being the true intent and meaning of
this act, not to legislate slavery into any Territory or State, nor to
exclude it therefrom; but to leave the people thereof perfectly free to
form and regulate their domestic institutions in their own way, subject
only to the Constitution of the United States." Then opened the roar of
loose declamation in favour ofSquatter Sovereigntyandsacred right
of self-government. "But," said opposition members, "let us amend the
bill so as to expressly declare that the people of the Territory may
exclude slavery." "Not we," said the friends of the measure, and down
they voted the amendment.
While the Nebraska bill was passing through Congress, alaw case,
involving the question of a negro's freedom, by reason of his owner
having voluntarily taken him first into a free State and then into a
Territory covered by the congressional prohibition, and held him as a
slave for a long time in each, was passing through the United States
Circuit Court for the District of Missouri; and both Nebraska bill and
law-suit were brought to a decision, in the same month of May, 1854. The
negro's name was "Dred Scott," which name now designates the decision
finally rendered in the case. Before the then next presidential
election, the law case came to, and was argued, in the Supreme Court of
the United States; but the decision of it was deferred until after the
election. Still, before the election, Senator Trumbull, on the floor of
the Senate, requested the leading advocate of the Nebraska bill to statehis opinionwhether the people of a Territory can constitutionally
exclude slavery from their limits, and the latter answers: "That is a
question for the Supreme Court."
The election came. Mr. Buchanan was elected, and the indorsement, such
as it was, secured. That was the second point gained. The indorsement,
however, fell short of a clear popular majority by nearly four hundred
thousand votes, and so, perhaps, was not overwhelmingly reliable and
satisfactory. The outgoing President, in his last annual message, as
impressively as possible echoed back upon the people the weight and
authority of the indorsement. The Supreme Court met again; did not
announce their decision, but ordered a reargument. The presidential
inauguration came, and still no decision of the Court; but the incoming
President in his inaugural address fervently exhorted the people to
abide by the forthcoming decision, whatever it might be. Then, in a few
days, came the decision.
The reputed author of the Nebraska bill finds an early occasion to make
a speech at this capitol, indorsing the Dred Scott decision, and
vehemently denouncing all opposition to it. The new President, too,
seizes the early occasion of the Silliman letter to indorse and strongly
construe that decision, and to express his astonishment that any
different view had ever been entertained!
At length a squabble springs up between the President and the author of
the Nebraska bill, on the mere question offactwhether the Lecompton
constitution was, or was not, in any just sense, made by the people of
Kansas; and in that quarrel, the latter declares that all he wants is a
fair vote for the people, and that he cares not whether slavery be voteddownorvoted up. I do not understand his declaration that he cares
not whether slavery be voted down or voted up, to be intended by him
other than as an apt definition of the policy he would impress upon the
public mind,—the principle for which he declares he has suffered so
much, and is ready to suffer to the end. And well may he cling to that
principle. If he has any parental feeling, well may he cling to it. That
principle is the only shred left of his original Nebraska doctrine.
Under the Dred Scott decision, "squatter sovereignty" squatted out of
existence, tumbled down like temporary scaffolding; like the mould at
the foundry, it served through one blast, and fell back into loose
sand,—helped to carry an election, and then was kicked to the winds.
His late joint struggle with the Republicans against the Lecompton
constitution, involves nothing of the original Nebraska doctrine. That
struggle was made on a point—the right of the people to make their own
constitution—upon which he and the Republicans have never differed.
The several points of the Dred Scott decision in connection with Senator
Douglas's "care not" policy, constitute the piece of machinery in its
present state of advancement. This was the third point gained. The
working points of that machinery are:
First.That no negro slave, imported as such from Africa, and no
descendant of such slave, can ever be a citizen of any State, in the
sense of that term as used in the Constitution of the United States.
This point is made in order to deprive the negro, in every possible
event, of the benefit of that provision of the United States
Constitution which declares that "citizens of each State shall be
entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several
States."
Secondly.That "subject to the Constitution of the United States,"
neither Congress nor a territorial legislature can exclude slavery from
any United States Territory. This point is made in order that individual
men may fill up the Territories with slaves, without danger of losing
them as property, and thus enhance the chances of permanency to the
institution through all the future.
Thirdly.That whether the holding a negro in actual slavery in a free
State makes him free as against the holder, the United States Courts
will not decide, but will leave to be decided by the courts of any slave
State the negro may be forced into by the master. This point is made,
not to be pressed immediately; but if acquiesced in for a while, and
apparently indorsed by the people at an election, then to sustain the
logical conclusion that what Dred Scott's master might lawfully do with
Dred Scott in the free State of Illinois, every other master may
lawfully do, with any other one, or one thousand slaves in Illinois, or
in any other free State.
Auxiliary to all this, and working hand-in-hand with it, the Nebraska
doctrine, or what is left of it, is to educate and mould public opinion
not to care whether slavery is voted down or voted up. This shows
exactly where we now are, and partially, also, whither we are tending.
It will throw additional light on the latter, to go back, and run the
mind over the string of historical facts already stated. Several things
will now appear less dark and mysterious than they did when they were
transpiring. The people were to be left "perfectly free," "subject only
to the Constitution." What the Constitution had to do with it, outsiders
could not then see. Plainly enough now: it was an exactly fitted niche
for the Dred Scott decision to afterwards come in, and declare the
perfect freedom of the people to be just no freedom at all. Why was the
amendment expressly declaring the right of the people voted down?
Plainly enough now: the adoption of it would have spoiled the niche for
the Dred Scott decision. Why was the Court decision held up? Why even a
Senator's individual opinion withheld till after the presidential
election? Plainly enough now: the speaking out then would have damaged
the perfectly free argument upon which the election was to be carried.
Why the outgoing President's felicitation on the indorsement? Why the
delay of a reargument? Why the incoming President's advance exhortation
in favour of the decision? These things look like the cautious patting
and petting of a spirited horse, preparatory to mounting him, when it is
dreaded that he may give the rider a fall. And why the hasty
after-indorsement of the decision by the President and others?
We cannot absolutely know that all these adaptations are the result of
preconcert. But when we see a lot of framed timbers, different portions
of which we know have been gotten out at different times and places, and
by different workmen—Stephen, Franklin, Roger, and James, for instance
(Douglas, Pierce, Taney, Buchanan),—and when we see those timbers
joined together, and see they exactly make the frame of a house or a
mill, all the tenons and mortices exactly fitting, and all the lengths
and proportions of the different pieces exactly adapted to their
respective places, and not a piece too many or too few, not omitting
even scaffolding—or if a single piece be lacking, we see the place in
the frame exactly fitted and prepared yet to bring such piece in,—in
such a case, we find it impossible not to believe that Stephen and
Franklin and Roger and James all understood one another from the
beginning, and all worked upon a common plan or draft, drawn up before
the first blow was struck.
It should not be overlooked that by the Nebraska bill the people of a
State as well as Territory were to be left "perfectly free," "subject
only to the Constitution." Why mention a State? They were legislating
for Territories, and not for or about States. Certainly the people of a
State are and ought to be subject to the Constitution of the United
States; but why is mention of this lugged into this merely territorial
law? Why are the people of a Territory and the people of a State therein
lumped together, and their relation to the Constitution therein treated
as being precisely the same? While the opinion of the Court by Chief
Justice Taney, in the Dred Scott case, and the separate opinions of all
the concurring judges, expressly declare that the Constitution of the
United States neither permits Congress nor a territorial legislature to
exclude slavery from any United States Territory, they all omit to
declare whether or not the same Constitution permits a State or the
people of a State to exclude it.Possiblythis is a mere omission; but
who can be quite sure if McLean or Curtis had sought to get into the
opinion a declaration of unlimited power in the people of a State to
exclude slavery from their limits,—just as Chase and Mace sought to get
such declaration in behalf of the people of a Territory, into the
Nebraska Bill,—I ask, who can be quite sure that it would not have been
voted down in the one case as it had been in the other? The nearest
approach to the point of declaring the power of a State over slavery is
made by Judge Nelson. He approaches it more than once, using the precise
idea, and almost the language too, of the Nebraska act. On one occasion
his exact language is "except in cases where the power is restrained by
the Constitution of the United States, the law of the State is supreme
over the subject of slavery within its jurisdiction." In what cases the
power of the State is so restrained by the United States Constitution is
left an open question, precisely as the same question, as to the
restraint on the power of the Territories, was left open in the Nebraska
act. Put this and that together, and we have another nice little niche,
which we may, ere long, see filled with another Supreme Court decision,
declaring that the Constitution of the United States does not permita
Stateto exclude slavery from its limits. And this may especially be
expected if the doctrine of "care not whether slavery be voted down or
voted up" shall gain upon the public mind sufficiently to give promise
that such a decision can be maintained when made.
Such a decision is all that slavery now lacks of being alike lawful in
all the States. Welcome or unwelcome, such decision is probably coming,
and will soon be upon us, unless the power of the present political
dynasty shall be met and overthrown. We shall lie down, pleasantly
dreaming that the people of Missouri are on the verge of making their
State free, and we shall awake to the reality instead, that the Supreme
Court has made Illinois a slave State. To meet and overthrow the power
of that dynasty is the work now before all those who would prevent that
consummation. That is what we have to do. How can we best do it?
There are those who denounce us openly to their own friends, and yet
whisper to us softly that Senator Douglas is the aptest instrument there
is with which to effect that object. They wish us toinferall from
the fact that he now has a little quarrel with the present head of that
dynasty, and that he has regularly voted with us on a single point, upon
which he and we have never differed. They remind us that he is a great
man and that the largest of us are very small ones. Let this be granted.
But "a living dog is better than a dead lion." Judge Douglas, if not a
dead lion, for this work is at least a caged and toothless one. How can
he oppose the advances of slavery? He don't care anything about it. His
avowed mission is impressing the "public heart" tocare nothing about
it. A leading Douglas Democratic newspaper thinks Douglas's superior
talent will be needed to resist the revival of the African slave-trade.
Does Douglas believe an effort to revive that trade is approaching? He
has not said so. Does he really think so? But if it is, how can he
resist it? For years he has laboured to prove it a sacred right of white
men to take negro slaves into the new territories. Can he possibly show
that it is a less sacred right to buy them where they can be bought
cheapest? And unquestionably they can be bought cheaper in Africa than
in Virginia. He has done all in his power to reduce the whole question
of slavery to one of a mere right of property: and, as such, how can he
oppose the foreign slave-trade?—how can he refuse that trade in that
property shall be "perfectly free," unless he does it as a protection to
home production? And as the home producers will probably not ask the
protection, he will be wholly without a ground of opposition.
Senator Douglas holds, we know, that a man may rightfully be wiser
to-day than he was yesterday—that he may rightfully change when he
finds himself wrong. But can we, for that reason, run ahead, and infer
that he will make any particular change, of which he himself has given
no intimation? Can we safely base our action upon any such vague
inference?
Now, as ever, I wish not to misrepresent Judge Douglas's position,
question his motives, or do aught that can be personally offensive to
him. Whenever, if ever, he and we can come together on principle, so
that our cause may have assistance from his great ability, I hope to
have interposed no adventitious obstacle. But, clearly, he is not now
with us—he does not pretend to be—he does not promise ever to be.
Our cause, then, must be intrusted to, and conducted by, its own
undoubted friends—those whose hands are free, whose hearts are in the
work, who do care for the result. Two years ago the Republicans of the
nation mustered over thirteen hundred thousand strong. We did this under
the single impulse of resistance to a common danger, with every external
circumstance against us. Of strange, discordant, and even hostile
elements, we gathered from the four winds, and formed and fought the
battle through, under the constant hot fire of a disciplined, proud, and
pampered enemy. Did we brave all then to falter now?—now, when that
same enemy is wavering, dissevered, and belligerent? The result is not
doubtful. We shall not fail. If we stand firm, we shall not fail. Wise
counsels may accelerate or mistakes delay it; but sooner or later the
victory is sure to come.
... Popular sovereignty! everlasting popular sovereignty! Let us for a
moment inquire into this vast matter of popular sovereignty. What is
popular sovereignty? We recollect that at an early period in the history
of this struggle, there was another name for the same thing,—squatter
sovereignty. It was not exactly popular sovereignty, but squatter
sovereignty. What do these terms mean? What do those terms mean when
used now? And vast credit is taken by our friend, the Judge, in regard
to his support of it, when he declares the last years of his life have
been, and all the future years of his life shall be, devoted to this
matter of popular sovereignty. What is it? Why, it is the sovereignty of
the people! What was squatter sovereignty? I suppose, if it had any
signification at all, it was the right of the people to govern
themselves, to be sovereign in their own affairs, while they were
squatted down in a country not their own,—while they had squatted on a
territory that did not belong to them, in the sense that a State belongs
to the people who inhabit it,—when it belonged to the nation; such
right to govern themselves was called "squatter sovereignty."
Now, I wish you to mark, What has become of that squatter sovereignty?
What has become of it? Can you get anybody to tell you now that the
people of a Territory have any authority to govern themselves, in regard
to this mooted question of slavery, before they form a State
constitution? No such thing at all, although there is a general running
fire, and although there has been a hurrah made in every speech on that
side, assuming that policy had given to the people of a Territory the
right to govern themselves upon this question; yet the point is dodged.
To-day it has been decided—no more than a year ago it was decided by
the Supreme Court of the United States, and is insisted upon
to-day—that the people of a Territory have no right to exclude slavery
from a Territory; that if any one man chooses to take slaves into a
Territory, all the rest of the people have no right to keep them out.
This being so, and this decision being made, one of the points that the
Judge approved, and one in the approval of which he says he means to
keep me down,—putme down I should not say, for I have never been up!
He says he is in favour of it, and sticks to it, and expects to win his
battle on that decision, which says that there is no such thing as
squatter sovereignty, but that any one man may take slaves into a
Territory, and all the other men in the Territory may be opposed to it,
and yet by reason of the Constitution they cannot prohibit it. When that
is so, how much is left of this vast matter of squatter sovereignty, I
should like to know?
When we get back, we get to the point of the right of the people to make
a constitution. Kansas was settled, for example, in 1854. It was a
Territory yet, without having formed a constitution, in a very regular
way, for three years. All this time negro slavery could be taken in by
any few individuals, and by that decision of the Supreme Court, which
the Judge approves, all the rest of the people cannot keep it out; but
when they come to make a constitution they may say they will not have
slavery. But it is there; they are obliged to tolerate it in some way,
and all experience shows it will be so,—for they will not take the
negro slaves and absolutely deprive the owners of them. All experience
shows this to be so. All that space of time that runs from the beginning
of the settlement of the Territory until there is a sufficiency of
people to make a State constitution,—all that portion of time popular
sovereignty is given up. The seal is absolutely put down upon it by the
court decision, and Judge Douglas puts his own upon the top of that; yet
he is appealing to the people to give him vast credit for his devotion
to popular sovereignty.
Again, when we get to the question of the right of the people to form a
State constitution as they please, to form it with slavery or without
slavery,—if that is anything new I confess I don't know it. Has there
ever been a time when anybody said that any other than the people of a
Territory itself should form a constitution? What is now in it that
Judge Douglas should have fought several years of his life, and pledge
himself to fight all the remaining years of his life for? Can Judge
Douglas find anybody on earth that said that anybody else should form a
constitution for a people?... It is enough for my purpose to ask,
whenever a Republican said anything against it? They never said anything
against it, but they have constantly spoken for it; and whosoever will
undertake to examine the platform and the speeches of responsible men of
the party, and of irresponsible men, too, if you please, will be unable
to find one word from anybody in the Republican ranks opposed to that
popular sovereignty which Judge Douglas thinks he has invented. I
suppose that Judge Douglas will claim in a little while that he is the
inventor of the idea that the people should govern themselves; that
nobody ever thought of such a thing until he brought it forward. We do
not remember that in that old Declaration of Independence it is said
that "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created
equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable
rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness; that to secure these rights, governments are instituted among
men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed." There
is the origin of popular sovereignty. Who, then, shall come in at this
day and claim that he invented it? The Lecompton constitution connects
itself with this question, for it is in this matter of the Lecompton
constitution that our friend Judge Douglas claims such vast credit. I
agree that in opposing the Lecompton constitution, so far as I can
perceive, he was right. I do not deny that at all; and, gentlemen, you
will readily see why I could not deny it, even if I wanted to. But I do
not wish to, for all the Republicans in the nation opposed it, and they
would have opposed it just as much without Judge Douglas's aid as with
it. They had all taken ground against it long before he did. Why, the
reason that he urges against that constitution I urged against him a
year before. I have the printed speech in my hand. The argument that he
makes why that constitution should not be adopted, that the people were
not fairly represented nor allowed to vote, I pointed out in a speech a
year ago, which I hold in my hand now, that no fair chance was to be
given to the people.
... A little more now as to this matter of popular sovereignty and the
Lecompton constitution. The Lecompton constitution, as the Judge tells
us, was defeated. The defeat of it was a good thing, or it was not. He
thinks the defeat of it was a good thing, and so do I; and we agree in
that. Who defeated it? [A voice: "Judge Douglas."] Yes, he furnished
himself; and if you suppose he controlled the other Democrats that went
with him, he furnished three votes, while the Republicans furnished
twenty.
That is what he did to defeat it. In the House of Representatives he and
his friends furnished some twenty votes, and the Republicans furnished
ninety odd. Now, who was it that did the work? [A voice: "Douglas."]
Why, yes, Douglas did it? To be sure he did!
Let us, however, put that proposition another way. The Republicans could
not have done it without Judge Douglas. Could he have done it without
them? Which could have come the nearest to doing it without the other?
Ground was taken against it by the Republicans long before Douglas did
it. The proposition of opposition to that measure is about five to one.
[A voice: "Why don't they come out on it?"] You don't know what you are
talking about, my friend; I am quite willing to answer any gentleman in
the crowd who asks an intelligent question.
Now, who in all this country has ever found any of our friends of Judge
Douglas's way of thinking, and who have acted upon this main question,
that have ever thought of uttering a word in behalf of Judge Trumbull? I
defy you to show a printed resolution passed in a Democratic meeting. I
take it upon myself to defy any man to show a printed resolution, large
or small, of a Democratic meeting in favour of Judge Trumbull, or any of
the five to one Republicans who beat that bill. Everything must be for
the Democrats! They did everything, and the five to the one that really
did the thing, they snub over, and they do not seem to remember that
they have an existence upon the face of the earth.
Gentlemen, I fear that I shall become tedious. I leave this branch of
the subject to take hold of another. I take up that part of Judge
Douglas's speech in which he respectfully attended to me.
Judge Douglas made two points upon my recent speech at Springfield. He
says they are to be the issues of this campaign. The first one of these
points he bases upon the language in a speech which I delivered at
Springfield, which I believe I can quote correctly from memory. I said
that "we are now far into the fifth year since a policy was instituted
for the avowed object and with the confident promise of putting an end
to slavery agitation; under the operation of that policy, that agitation
has not only not ceased, but has constantly augmented. I believe it will
not cease until a crisis shall have been reached and passed. 'A house
divided against itself cannot stand.' I believe this government cannot
endure permanently half slave and half free. I do not expect the Union
to be dissolved,"—I am quoting from my speech,—"I do not expect the
house to fall, but I do expect it will cease to be divided. It will
become all one thing or all the other. Either the opponents of slavery
will arrest the further spread of it, and place it where the public mind
shall rest in the belief that it is in the course of ultimate
extinction, or its advocates will push it forward until it shall become
alike lawful in all the States, old as well as new; North as well as
South."
That is the paragraph! In this paragraph which I have quoted in your
hearing, and to which I ask the attention of all, Judge Douglas thinks
he discovers great political heresy. I want your attention particularly
to what he has inferred from it. He says I am in favour of making all
the States of this Union uniform in all their internal regulations; that
in all their domestic concerns I am in favour of making them entirely
uniform. He draws this inference from the language I have quoted to you.
He says that I am in favour of making war by the North upon the South
for the extinction of slavery; that I am also in favour of inviting (as
he expresses it) the South to a war upon the North for the purpose of
nationalizing slavery. Now, it is singular enough, if you will carefully
read that passage over, that I did not say that I was in favour of
anything in it. I only said what I expected would take place. I made a
prediction only,—it may have been a foolish one, perhaps. I did not
even say that I desired that slavery should be put in course of ultimate
extinction. I do say so now, however; so there need be no longer any
difficulty about that. It may be written down in the great speech.
Gentlemen, Judge Douglas informed you that this speech of mine was
probably carefully prepared. I admit that it was. I am not master of
language; I have not a fine education; I am not capable of entering into
a disquisition upon dialectics, as I believe you call it; but I do not
believe the language I employed bears any such construction as Judge
Douglas puts upon it. But I don't care about a quibble in regard to
words. I know what I meant, and I will not leave this crowd in doubt, if
I can explain it to them, what I really meant in the use of that
paragraph.
I am not, in the first place, unaware that this government has endured
eighty-two years, half slave and half free. I know that. I am tolerably
well acquainted with the history of the country, and I know that it has
endured eighty-two years, half slave and half free. I believe—and that
is what I meant to allude to there—I believe it has endured, because,
during all that time, until the introduction of the Nebraska bill, the
public mind did rest all the time in the belief that slavery was in
course of ultimate extinction. That was what gave us the rest that we
had through that period of eighty-two years; at least, so I believe. I
have always hated slavery, I think, as much as any Abolitionist,—I
have been an old-line Whig,—I have always hated it, but I have always
been quiet about it until this new era of the introduction of the
Nebraska bill began. I always believed that everybody was against it,
and that it was in course of ultimate extinction.... They had reason so
to believe.
The adoption of the Constitution and its attendant history led the
people to believe so, and that such was the belief of the framers of the
Constitution itself. Why did those old men, about the time of the
adoption of the Constitution, decree that slavery should not go into the
new Territory where it had not already gone? Why declare that within
twenty years the African slave-trade, by which slaves are supplied,
might be cut off by Congress? Why were all these acts? I might enumerate
more of these acts; but enough. What were they but a clear indication
that the framers of the Constitution intended and expected the ultimate
extinction of that institution? And now when I say,—as I said in my
speech that Judge Douglas has quoted from,—when I say that I think the
opponents of slavery will resist the further spread of it, and place it
where the public mind shall rest in the belief that it is in the course
of ultimate extinction, I only mean to say that they will place it where
the founders of this government originally placed it.
I have said a hundred times, and I have now no inclination to take it
back, that I believe there is no right, and ought to be no inclination
in the people of the free States, to enter into the slave States and
interfere with the question of slavery at all. I have said that always;
Judge Douglas has heard me say it. And when it is said that I am in
favour of interfering with slavery where it exists, I know it is
unwarranted by anything I have ever intended, and, as I believe, by
anything I have ever said. If by any means I have ever used language
which could fairly be so construed (as, however, I believe I never
have), I now correct it.
So much, then, for the inference that Judge Douglas draws, that I am in
favour of setting the sections at war with one another. I know that I
never meant any such thing, and I believe that no fair mind can infer
any such thing from anything I have said.
Now, in relation to his inference that I am in favour of a general
consolidation of all the local institutions of the various States.... I
have said very many times in Judge Douglas's hearing that no man
believed more than I in the principle of self-government; that it lies
at the bottom of all my ideas of just government from beginning to end.
I have denied that his use of that term applies properly. But for the
thing itself I deny that any man has ever gone ahead of me in his
devotion to the principle, whatever he may have done in efficiency in
advocating it. I think that I have said it in your hearing, that I
believe each individual is naturally entitled to do as he pleases with
himself and the fruit of his labour, so far as it in no wise interferes
with any other man's rights; that each community, as a State, has a
right to do exactly as it pleases with all the concerns within that
State that interfere with the right of no other State; and that the
general government upon principle has no right to interfere with
anything other than that general class of things that does concern the
whole. I have said that at all times; I have said as illustrations that
I do not believe in the right of Illinois to interfere with the
cranberry laws of Indiana, the oyster laws of Virginia, or the liquor
laws of Maine.
How is it, then, that Judge Douglas infers, because I hope to see
slavery put where the public mind shall rest in the belief that it is in
the course of ultimate extinction, that I am in favour of Illinois going
over and interfering with the cranberry laws of Indiana? What can
authorize him to draw any such inference? I suppose there might be one
thing that at least enabled him to draw such an inference, that would
not be true with me or many others; that is, because he looks upon all
this matter of slavery as an exceedingly little thing,—this matter of
keeping one-sixth of the population of the whole nation in a state of
oppression and tyranny unequalled in the world. He looks upon it as
being an exceedingly little thing, only equal to the question of the
cranberry laws of Indiana; as something having no moral question in it;
as something on a par with the question of whether a man shall pasture
his land with cattle or plant it with tobacco; so little and so small a
thing that he concludes, if I could desire that anything should be done
to bring about the ultimate extinction of that little thing, I must be
in favour of bringing about an amalgamation of all the other little
things in the Union. Now, it so happens—and there, I presume, is the
foundation of this mistake—that the Judge thinks thus; and it so
happens that there is a vast portion of the American people that do not
look upon that matter as being this very little thing. They look upon it
as a vast moral evil; they can prove it as such by the writings of those
who gave us the blessings of liberty which we enjoy, and that they so
looked upon it, and not as an evil merely confining itself to the States
where it is situated; and while we agree that by the Constitution we
assented to, in the States where it exists we have no right to interfere
with it, because it is in the Constitution, we are both by duty and
inclination to stick by that Constitution in all its letter and spirit
from beginning to end.
So much, then, as to my disposition, my wish, to have all the State
legislatures blotted out and to have one consolidated government and a
uniformity of domestic regulations in all the States; by which I suppose
it is meant, if we raise corn here we must make sugar-cane grow here
too, and we must make those things which grow North grow in the South.
All this I suppose he understands I am in favour of doing. Now, so much
for all this nonsense—for I must call it so. The Judge can have no
issue with me on a question of establishing uniformity in the domestic
regulations of the States.
A little now on the other point,—the Dred Scott decision. Another of
the issues, he says, that is to be made with me is upon his devotion to
the Dred Scott decision and my opposition to it.
I have expressed heretofore, and I now repeat, my opposition to the Dred
Scott decision; but I should be allowed to state the nature of that
opposition, and I ask your indulgence while I do so. What is fairly
implied by the term Judge Douglas has used, "resistance to the
decision"? I do not resist it. If I wanted to take Dred Scott from his
master I would be interfering with property, and that terrible
difficulty that Judge Douglas speaks of, of interfering with property,
would arise. But I am doing no such thing as that; all that I am doing
is refusing to obey it as a political rule. If I were in Congress, and a
vote should come up on a question whether slavery should be prohibited
in a new Territory, in spite of the Dred Scott decision, I would vote
that it should.
That is what I would do. Judge Douglas said last night that before the
decision he might advance his opinion, and it might be contrary to the
decision when it was made; but after it was made he would abide by it
until it was reversed. Just so! We let this property abide by the
decision, but we will try to reverse that decision. We will try to put
it where Judge Douglas would not object, for he says he will obey it
until it is reversed. Somebody has to reverse that decision, since it is
made; and we mean to reverse it, and we mean to do it peaceably.
What are the uses of decisions of courts? They have two uses. First,
they decide upon the question before the court. They decide in this case
that Dred Scott is a slave. Nobody resists that. Not only that, but they
say to everybody else that persons standing just as Dred Scott stands
are as he is. That is, they say that when a question comes up upon
another person it will be so decided again, unless the court decides
another way, unless the court overrules its decision. Well, we mean to
do what we can to have the court decide the other way. That is one thing
we mean to try to do.
The sacredness that Judge Douglas throws around this decision is a
degree of sacredness that has never been before thrown around any other
decision. I have never heard of such a thing. Why, decisions apparently
contrary to that decision, or that good lawyers thought were contrary
to that decision, have been made by that very court before. It is the
first of its kind; it is an astonisher in legal history; it is a new
wonder of the world; it is based upon falsehood in the main as to
the facts,—allegations of facts upon which it stands are not facts
at all in many instances,—and no decision made on any question—the
first instance of a decision made under so many unfavourable
circumstances—thus placed, has ever been held by the profession as law,
and it has always needed confirmation before the lawyers regarded it as
settled law; but Judge Douglas will have it that all hands must take
this extraordinary decision made under these extraordinary circumstances
and give their vote in Congress in accordance with it, yield to it, and
obey it in every possible sense. Circumstances alter cases. Do not
gentlemen here remember the case of that same Supreme Court some
twenty-five or thirty years ago, deciding that a national bank was
constitutional? I ask if somebody does not remember that a national bank
was declared to be constitutional? Such is the truth, whether it be
remembered or not. The bank charter ran out, and a re-charter was
granted by Congress. That re-charter was laid before General Jackson. It
was urged upon him, when he denied the constitutionality of the bank,
that the Supreme Court had decided that it was constitutional; and
General Jackson then said that the Supreme Court had no right to lay
down a rule to govern a coordinate branch of the government, the members
of which had sworn to support the Constitution,—that each member had
sworn to support the Constitution as he understood it. I will venture
here to say that I have heard Judge Douglas say that he approved of
General Jackson for that act. What has now become of all his tirade
against "resistance to the Supreme Court"?
My fellow-citizens, getting back a little,—for I pass from these
points,—when Judge Douglas makes his threat of annihilation upon the
"alliance," he is cautious to say that that warfare of his is to fall
upon the leaders of the Republican party. Almost every word he utters
and every distinction he makes has its significance. He means for the
Republicans who do not count themselves as leaders to be his friends; he
makes no fuss over them, it is the leaders that he is making war upon.
He wants it understood that the mass of the Republican party are really
his friends. It is only the leaders that are doing something, that are
intolerant, and require extermination at his hands. As this is clearly
and unquestionably the light in which he presents that matter, I want to
ask your attention, addressing myself to Republicans here, that I may
ask you some questions as to where you, as the Republican party, would
be placed if you sustained Judge Douglas in his present position by a
re-election? I do not claim, gentlemen, to be unselfish; I do not
pretend that I would not like to go to the United States Senate,—I make
no such hypocritical pretence; but I do say to you, that in this mighty
issue it is nothing to you, nothing to the mass of the people of the
nation, whether or not Judge Douglas or myself shall ever be heard of
after this night. It may be a trifle to either of us; but in connection
with this mighty question, upon which hang the destinies of the nation,
perhaps, it is absolutely nothing. But where will you be placed if you
reindorse Judge Douglas? Don't you know how apt he is, how exceedingly
anxious he is, at all times to seize upon anything and everything to
persuade you that something he has done you did yourselves? Why, he
tried to persuade you last night that our Illinois Legislature
instructed him to introduce the Nebraska bill. There was nobody in that
Legislature ever thought of it; but still he fights furiously for the
proposition; and that he did it because there was a standing instruction
to our senators to be always introducing Nebraska bills. He tells you he
is for the Cincinnati platform; he tells you he is for the Dred Scott
decision; he tells you—not in his speech last night, but substantially
in a former speech—that he cares not if slavery is voted up or down; he
tells you the struggle on Lecompton is past,—it may come up again or
not, and if it does, he stands where he stood when, in spite of him and
his opposition, you built up the Republican party. If you indorse him,
you tell him you do not care whether slavery be voted up or down, and he
will close, or try to close, your mouths with his declaration, repeated
by the day, the week, the month, and the year. I think, in the position
in which Judge Douglas stood in opposing the Lecompton constitution, he
was right; he does not know that it will return, but if it does we may
know where to find him; and if it does not, we may know where to look
for him, and that is on the Cincinnati platform. Now, I could ask the
Republican party, after all the hard names Judge Douglas has called them
by, ... all his declarations of Black Republicanism—(by the way, we are
improving, the black has got rubbed off), but with all that, if he be
indorsed by Republican votes, where do you stand? Plainly, you stand
ready saddled, bridled, and harnessed, and waiting to be driven over to
the slavery-extension camp of the nation,—just ready to be driven over,
tied together in a lot,—to be driven over, every man with a rope around
his neck, that halter being held by Judge Douglas. That is the question.
If Republican men have been in earnest in what they have done, I think
they had better not do it; but I think the Republican party is made up
of those who, as far as they can peaceably, will oppose the extension of
slavery, and who will hope for its ultimate extinction. If they believe
it is wrong in grasping up the new lands of the continent, and keeping
them from the settlement of free white labourers, who want the land to
bring up their families upon; if they are in earnest,—although they may
make a mistake, they will grow restless, and the time will come when
they will come back again and reorganize, if not by the same name, at
least upon the same principles as their party now has. It is better,
then, to save the work while it is begun. You have done the labour;
maintain it, keep it. If men choose to serve you, go with them; but as
you have made up your organization upon principle, stand by it; for, as
surely as God reigns over you, and has inspired your minds and given you
a sense of propriety and continues to give you hope, so surely will you
still cling to these ideas, and you will at last come back again after
your wanderings, merely to do your work over again.
We were often,—more than once, at least,—in the course of Judge
Douglas's speech last night, reminded that this government was made for
white men,—that he believed it was made for white men. Well, that is
putting it into a shape in which no one wants to deny it; but the Judge
then goes into his passion for drawing inferences that are not
warranted. I protest, now and for ever, against that counterfeit logic
which presumes that, because I do not want a negro woman for a slave, I
do necessarily want her for a wife. My understanding is, that I need not
have her for either; but, as God made us separate, we can leave one
another alone, and do one another much good thereby. There are white men
enough to marry all the white women, and enough black men to marry all
the black women; and in God's name let them be so married. The Judge
regales us with the terrible enormities that take place by the mixture
of races; that the inferior race bears the superior down. Why, Judge, if
we do not let them get together in the Territories, they won't mix
there. I should say at least that that was a self-evident truth.
Now, it happens that we meet together once every year, somewhere about
the 4th of July, for some reason or other. These 4th of July gatherings,
I suppose, have their uses. If you will indulge me, I will state what I
suppose to be some of them.
We are now a mighty nation: we are thirty, or about thirty, millions of
people, and we own and inhabit about one-fifteenth part of the dry land
of the whole earth. We run our memory back over the pages of history for
about eighty-two years, and we discover that we were then a very small
people in point of numbers, vastly inferior to what we are now, with a
vastly less extent of country, with vastly less of everything we deem
desirable among men. We look upon the change as exceedingly advantageous
to us and to our posterity, and we fix upon something that happened away
back, as in some way or other being connected with this rise of
prosperity. We find a race of men living in that day whom we claim as
our fathers and grandfathers; they were iron men; they fought for the
principle that they were contending for, and we understand that by what
they then did, it has followed that the degree of prosperity which we
now enjoy has come to us. We hold this annual celebration to remind
ourselves of all the good done in this process of time,—of how it was
done, and who did it, and how we are historically connected with it; and
we go from these meetings in better humour with ourselves,—we feel more
attached the one to the other, and more firmly bound to the country we
inhabit. In every way we are better men, in the age and race and country
in which we live, for these celebrations. But after we have done all
this, we have not yet reached the whole. There is something else
connected with it. We have, besides these men—descended by blood from
our ancestors—among us, perhaps half our people who are not descendants
at all of these men; they are men who have come from Europe,—German,
Irish, French, and Scandinavian,—men that have come from Europe
themselves, or whose ancestors have come hither and settled here,
finding themselves our equal in all things. If they look back through
this history, to trace their connection with those days by blood, they
find they have none: they cannot carry themselves back into that
glorious epoch and make themselves feel that they are part of us; but
when they look through that old Declaration of Independence, they find
that those old men say that "we hold these truths to be self-evident,
that all men are created equal," and then they feel that that moral
sentiment taught in that day evidences their relation to those men, that
it is the father of all moral principle in them, and that they have a
right to claim it as though they were blood of the blood, and flesh of
the flesh, of the men who wrote that Declaration; and so they are. That
is the electric cord in that Declaration that links the hearts of
patriotic and liberty-loving men together; that will link those
patriotic hearts as long as the love of freedom exists in the minds of
men throughout the world.
Now, sirs, for the purpose of squaring things with this idea of "don't
care if slavery is voted up or voted down"; for sustaining the Dred
Scott decision; for holding that the Declaration of Independence did not
mean anything at all,—we have Judge Douglas giving his exposition of
what the Declaration of Independence means, and we have him saying that
the people of America are equal to the people of England. According to
his construction, you Germans are not connected with it. Now, I ask you
in all soberness, if all these things, if indulged in, if ratified, if
confirmed and indorsed, if taught to our children and repeated to them,
do not tend to rub out the sentiment of liberty in the country, and to
transform this government into a government of some other form? Those
arguments that are made, that the inferior race are to be treated with
as much allowance as they are capable of enjoying; that as much is to be
done for them as their condition will allow,—what are these arguments?
They are the arguments that kings have made for enslaving the people in
all ages of the world. You will find that all the arguments in favour of
kingcraft were of this class; they always bestrode the necks of the
people,—not that they wanted to do it, but because the people were
better off for being ridden. That is their argument; and this argument
of the Judge is the same old serpent, that says, "You work, and I eat;
you toil, and I will enjoy the fruits of it." Turn in whatever way you
will,—whether it come from the mouth of a king, an excuse for enslaving
the people of his country, or from the mouth of men of one race as a
reason for enslaving the men of another race,—it is all the same old
serpent; and I hold, if that course of argumentation that is made for
the purpose of convincing the public mind that we should not care about
this, should be granted, it does not stop with the negro. I should like
to know—taking this old Declaration of Independence, which declares
that all men are equal, upon principle, and making exceptions to
it—where will it stop? If one man says it does not mean a negro, why
not another say it does not mean some other man? If that Declaration is
not the truth, let us get the statute-book in which we find it, and tear
it out! Who is so bold as to do it? If it is not true, let us tear it
out. [Cries of "No! No!"] Let us stick to it, then; let us stand firmly
by it, then.
It may be argued that there are certain conditions that make necessities
and impose them upon us, and to the extent that a necessity is imposed
upon a man, he must submit to it. I think that was the condition in
which we found ourselves when we established this government. We had
slaves among us; we could not get our Constitution unless we permitted
them to remain in slavery; we could not secure the good we did secure,
if we grasped for more; but, having by necessity submitted to that much,
it does not destroy the principle that is the charter of our liberties.
Let that charter stand as our standard.
My friend has said to me that I am a poor hand to quote Scripture. I
will try it again, however. It is said in one of the admonitions of our
Lord, "Be ye [therefore] perfect even as your Father which is in heaven
is perfect." The Saviour, I suppose, did not expect that any human
creature could be perfect as the Father in heaven; but He said: "As your
Father in heaven is perfect, be ye also perfect." He set that up as a
standard, and he who did most toward reaching that standard attained the
highest degree of moral perfection. So I say in relation to the
principle that all men are created equal, let it be as nearly reached as
we can. If we cannot give freedom to every creature, let us do nothing
that will impose slavery upon any other creature. Let us, then, turn
this government back into the channel in which the framers of the
Constitution originally placed it. Let us stand firmly by each other.
If we do not do so, we are tending in the contrary direction, that our
friend Judge Douglas proposes,—not intentionally,—working in the
traces that tend to make this one universal slave nation. He is one that
runs in that direction, and as such I resist him.
My friends, I have detained you about as long as I desired to do, and I
have only to say, let us discard all this quibbling about this man and
the other man, this race and that race and the other race being
inferior, and therefore they must be placed in an inferior position. Let
us discard all these things, and unite as one people throughout this
land, until we shall once more stand up declaring that all men are
created equal.
My friends, I could not, without launching off upon some new topic,
which would detain you too long, continue to-night. I thank you for this
most extensive audience that you have furnished me to-night. I leave
you, hoping that the lamp of liberty will burn in your bosoms until
there shall no longer be a doubt that all men are created free and
equal.
... There is still another disadvantage under which we labour, and to
which I will ask your attention. It arises out of the relative positions
of the two persons who stand before the State as candidates for the
Senate. Senator Douglas is of world-wide renown. All the anxious
politicians of his party, or who have been of his party for years past,
have been looking upon him as certainly, at no distant day, to be the
President of the United States. They have seen, in his round, jolly,
fruitful face, post-offices, land-offices, marshalships, and cabinet
appointments, chargéships and foreign missions, bursting and sprouting
out in wonderful exuberance, ready to be laid hold of by their greedy
hands. And as they have been gazing upon this attractive picture so
long, they cannot, in the little distraction that has taken place in the
party, bring themselves to give up the charming hope. But with greedier
anxiety they rush about him, sustain him, and give him marches,
triumphal entries, and receptions, beyond what, even in the days of his
highest prosperity, they could have brought about in his favour. On the
contrary, nobody has ever expected me to be President. In my poor, lean,
lank face, nobody has ever seen that any cabbages were sprouting out.
These are disadvantages, all taken together, that the Republicans labour
under. We have to fight this battle upon principle, and upon principle
alone. I am in a certain sense made the standard-bearer in behalf of the
Republicans. I was made so merely because there had to be some one so
placed,—I being in no wise preferable to any other one of the
twenty-five, perhaps a hundred, we have in the Republican ranks. Then I
say, I wish it to be distinctly understood and borne in mind, that we
have to fight this battle without many—perhaps without any—of the
external aids which are brought to bear against us. So I hope those with
whom I am surrounded have principle enough to nerve themselves for the
task, and leave nothing undone that can fairly be done to bring about
the right result. As appears by two speeches I have heard him deliver
since his arrival in Illinois, he gave special attention to the speech
of mine delivered on the sixteenth of June. He says that he carefully
read that speech. He told us that at Chicago a week ago last night, and
he repeated it at Bloomington last night.... He says it was evidently
prepared with great care. I freely admit it was prepared with care....
But I was very careful not to put anything in that speech as a matter of
fact, or make any inferences which did not appear to me to be true and
fully warrantable. If I had made any mistake I was willing to be
corrected; if I had drawn any inference in regard to Judge Douglas or
any one else, which was not warranted, I was fully prepared to modify it
as soon as discovered. I planted myself upon the truth and the truth
only, so far as I knew it, or could be brought to know it.
Having made that speech with the most kindly feelings toward Judge
Douglas, as manifested therein, I was gratified when I found that he had
carefully examined it, and had detected no error of fact, nor any
inference against him, nor any misrepresentations, of which he thought
fit to complain.... He seizes upon the doctrines he supposes to be
included in that speech, and declares that upon them will turn the
issues of the campaign. He then quotes, or attempts to quote, from my
speech. I will not say that he wilfully misquotes, but he does fail to
quote accurately. His attempt at quoting is from a passage which I
believe I can quote accurately from memory. I shall make the quotation
now, with some comments upon it, as I have already said, in order that
the Judge shall be left entirely without excuse for misrepresenting me.
I do so now, as I hope, for the last time. I do this in great caution,
in order that if he repeats his misrepresentation, it shall be plain to
all that he does so wilfully. If, after all, he still persists, I shall
be compelled to reconstruct the course I have marked out for myself, and
draw upon such humble resources as I have for a new course, better
suited to the real exigencies of the case. I set out in this campaign
with the intention of conducting it strictly as a gentleman, in
substance at least, if not in the outside polish. The latter I shall
never be, but that which constitutes the inside of a gentleman I hope I
understand, and am not less inclined to practise than others. It was my
purpose and expectation that this canvass would be conducted upon
principle, and with fairness on both sides, and it shall not be my fault
if this purpose and expectation shall be given up.
He charges, in substance, that I invite a war of sections; that I
propose all local institutions of the different States shall become
consolidated and uniform. What is there in the language of that speech
which expresses such purpose or bears such construction? I have again
and again said that I would not enter into any one of the States to
disturb the institution of slavery. Judge Douglas said at Bloomington
that I used language most able and ingenious for concealing what I
really meant; and that while I had protested against entering into the
slave States, I nevertheless did mean to go on the banks of the Ohio and
throw missiles into Kentucky, to disturb them in their domestic
institutions.
... I have said that I do not understand the Declaration to mean that
all men were created equal in all respects. The negroes are not our
equals in colour; but I suppose it does mean to declare that all men are
equal in some respects; they are equal in their right to "life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness." Certainly the negro is not our equal in
colour, perhaps not in many other respects. Still, in the right to put
into his mouth the bread that his own hands have earned, he is the equal
of every other man, white or black. In pointing out that more has been
given you, you cannot be justified in taking away the little which has
been given him. All I ask for the negro is, that if you do not like him,
let him alone. If God gave him but little, that little let him enjoy.
... One more point on this Springfield speech, which Judge Douglas says
he has read so carefully. I expressed my belief in the existence of a
conspiracy to perpetuate and nationalize slavery. I did not profess to
know it, nor do I now. I showed the part Judge Douglas had played in the
string of facts, constituting to my mind the proof of that conspiracy. I
showed the parts played by others.
I charged that the people had been deceived into carrying the last
presidential election, by the impression that the people of the
Territories might exclude slavery if they chose, when it was known in
advance by the conspirators that the court was to decide that neither
Congress nor the people could so exclude slavery. These charges are more
distinctly made than anything else in the speech.
Judge Douglas has carefully read and re-read that speech. He has not, so
far as I know, contradicted those charges. In the two speeches which I
heard he certainly did not. On his own tacit admission I renew that
charge. I charge him with having been a party to that conspiracy and to
that deception, for the sole purpose of nationalizing slavery.
When a man bears himself somewhat misrepresented, it provokes him—at
least, I find it so with myself; but when misrepresentation becomes very
gross and palpable, it is more apt to amuse him.... [After stating the
charge of an arrangement between himself and Judge Trumbull.]
Now, all I have to say upon that subject is, that I think no man—not
even Judge Douglas—can prove it, because it is not true. I have no
doubt he is "conscientious" in saying it. As to those resolutions that
he took such a length of time to read, as being the platform of the
Republican party in 1854, I say I never had anything to do with them,
and I think Trumbull never had. Judge Douglas cannot show that either of
us ever had anything to do with them....
Now, about this story that Judge Douglas tells of Trumbull bargaining to
sell out the old Democratic party, and Lincoln agreeing to sell out the
old Whig party, I have the means of knowing about that; Judge Douglas
cannot have; and I know there is no substance to it whatever....
A man cannot prove a negative, but he has a right to claim that when a
man makes an affirmative charge, he must offer some proof to show the
truth of what he says. I certainly cannot introduce testimony to show
the negative about things, but I have a right to claim that if a man
says he knows a thing, then he must show how he knows it. I always have
a right to claim this; and it is not satisfactory to me that he may be
"conscientious" on the subject.
... Anything that argues me into his idea of perfect social and
political equality with the negro is but a specious and fantastic
arrangement of words, by which a man can prove a horse-chestnut to be a
chestnut horse. I will say here, while upon this subject, that I have no
purpose, either directly or indirectly, to interfere with the
institution of slavery in the States where it exists. I believe I have
no lawful right to do so, and I have no inclination to do so. I have no
purpose to introduce political and social equality between the white and
the black races. There is a physical difference between the two, which,
in my judgment, will probably for ever forbid their living together upon
the footing of perfect equality; and inasmuch as it becomes a necessity
that there must be a difference, I, as well as Judge Douglas, am in
favour of the race to which I belong having the superior position. I
have never said anything to the contrary; but I hold, that,
notwithstanding all this, there is no reason in the world why the negro
is not entitled to all the natural rights enumerated in the Declaration
of Independence,—the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness. I hold that he is as much entitled to these as the white man.
I agree with Judge Douglas, he is not my equal in many respects,
certainly not in colour, perhaps not in moral or intellectual endowment.
But in the right to eat the bread, without the leave of anybody, which
his own hand earns, he is my equal, and the equal of Judge Douglas, and
the equal of any living man.
... As I have not used up so much of my time as I had supposed, I will
dwell a little longer upon one or two of these minor topics upon which
the Judge has spoken. He has read from my speech at Springfield, in
which I say that "a house divided against itself cannot stand." Does the
Judge say it can stand? I don't know whether he does or not. The Judge
does not seem to be attending to me just now, but I would like to know
if it is his opinion that a house divided against itself can stand? If
he does, then there is a question of veracity, not between him and me,
but between the Judge and an authority of a somewhat higher character.
Now, my friends, I ask your attention to this matter for the purpose of
saying something seriously, I know that the Judge may readily enough
agree with me that the maxim which was put forth by the Saviour is true,
but he may allege that I misapply it; and the Judge has a right to urge
that in my application I do misapply it, and then I have a right to show
that I do not misapply it. When he undertakes to say that because I
think this nation, so far as the question of slavery is concerned, will
all become one thing or all the other, I am in favour of bringing about
a dead uniformity in the various States, in all their institutions, he
argues erroneously. The great variety of local institutions in the
States, springing from differences in the soil, differences in the face
of the country, and in the climate, are bonds of union. They do not make
"a house divided against itself," but they make a house united. If they
produce in one section of the country what is called for by the wants of
another section, and this other section can supply the wants of the
first, they are not matters of discord, but bonds of union, true bonds
of union. But can this question of slavery be considered as among these
varieties in the institutions of the country? I leave it for you to say,
whether in the history of our government, this institution of slavery
has not always failed to be a bond of union, and, on the contrary, been
an apple of discord and an element of division in the house. I ask you
to consider whether so long as the moral constitution of men's minds
shall continue to be the same, after this generation and assemblage
shall sink into the grave, and another race shall arise with the same
moral and intellectual development we have—whether, if that institution
is standing in the same irritating position in which it now is, it will
not continue an element of division?
If so, then I have a right to say that, in regard to this question, the
Union is a house divided against itself; and when the Judge reminds me
that I have often said to him that the institution of slavery has
existed for eighty years in some States, and yet it does not exist in
some others, I agree to the fact, and I account for it by looking at
the position in which our fathers originally placed it,—restricting it
from the new Territories where it had not gone, and legislating to cut
off its source by the abrogation of the slave-trade, thus putting the
seal of legislation against its spread. The public mind did rest in the
belief that it was in the course of ultimate extinction. But lately, I
think,—and in this I charge nothing on the Judge's motives,—lately, I
think that he and those acting with him have placed that institution on
a new basis, which looks to the perpetuity and nationalization of
slavery. And while it is placed on this new basis, I say, and I have
said, that I believe we shall not have peace upon the question, until
the opponents of slavery arrest the further spread of it, and place it
where the public mind shall rest in the belief that it is in the course
of ultimate extinction; or, on the other hand, that its advocates will
push it forward until it shall become alike lawful in all the States,
old as well as new, North as well as South. Now, I believe if we could
arrest the spread, and place it where Washington and Jefferson and
Madison placed it, it would be in the course of ultimate extinction, and
the public mind would, as for eighty years past, believe that it was in
the course of ultimate extinction. The crisis would be past, and the
institution might be let alone for a hundred years—if it should live so
long—in the States where it exists, yet it would be going out of
existence in the way best for both the black and the white races. [A
voice: "Then do you repudiate popular sovereignty?"] Well, then, let us
talk about popular sovereignty. What is popular sovereignty? Is it the
right of the people to have slavery or not to have it, as they see fit,
in the Territories? I will state—and I have an able man to watch me—my
understanding is that popular sovereignty, as now applied to the
question of slavery, does allow the people of a Territory to have
slavery if they want to, but does not allow them not to have it if they
do not want it. I do not mean that if this vast concourse of people were
in a Territory of the United States, any one of them would be obliged
to have a slave if he did not want one; but I do say that, as I
understand the Dred Scott decision, if any one man wants slaves, all the
rest have no way of keeping that one man from holding them.
When I made my speech at Springfield, of which the Judge complains, and
from which he quotes, I really was not thinking of the things which he
ascribes to me at all. I had no thought in the world that I was doing
anything to bring about a war between the free and slave States. I had
no thought in the world that I was doing anything to bring about a
political and social equality of the black and white races. It never
occurred to me that I was doing anything or favouring anything to reduce
to a dead uniformity all the local institutions of the various States.
But I must say, in all fairness to him, if he thinks I am doing
something which leads to these bad results, it is none the better that I
did not mean it. It is just as fatal to the country, if I have any
influence in producing it, whether I intend it or not. But can it be
true that placing this institution upon the original basis—the basis
upon which our fathers placed it—can have any tendency to set the
Northern and the Southern States at war with one another, or that it can
have any tendency to make the people of Vermont raise sugar-cane,
because they raise it in Louisiana, or that it can compel the people of
Illinois to cut pine logs on the Grand Prairie, where they will not
grow, because they cut pine logs in Maine, where they do grow? The Judge
says this is a new principle started in regard to this question. Does
the Judge claim that he is working on the plan of the founders of the
government? I think he says in some of his speeches—indeed, I have one
here now—that he saw evidence of a policy to allow slavery to be south
of a certain line, while north of it it should be excluded, and he saw
an indisposition on the part of the country to stand upon that policy,
and, therefore, he set about studying the subject upon original
principles, and upon original principles he got up the Nebraska bill! I
am fighting it upon these "original principles"—fighting it in the
Jeffersonian, Washingtonian, Madisonian fashion....
If I have brought forward anything not a fact, if he (Judge Douglas)
will point it out, it will not even ruffle me to take it back. But if he
will not point out anything erroneous in the evidence, is it not rather
for him to show by a comparison of the evidence that I have reasoned
falsely, than to call the "kind, amiable, intelligent gentleman" a liar?
I want to ask your attention to a portion of the Nebraska bill which
Judge Douglas has quoted: "It being the true intent and meaning of this
act, not to legislate slavery into any Territory or State, nor to
exclude it therefrom, but to leave the people thereof perfectly free to
form and regulate their domestic institutions in their own way, subject
only to the Constitution of the United States." Thereupon Judge Douglas
and others began to argue in favour of "popular sovereignty,"—the right
of the people to have slaves if they wanted them, and to exclude slavery
if they did not want them. "But," said, in substance, a senator from
Ohio (Mr. Chase, I believe), "we more than suspect that you do not mean
to allow the people to exclude slavery if they wish to; and if you do
mean it, accept an amendment which I propose, expressly authorizing the
people to exclude slavery." I believe I have the amendment here before
me, which was offered, and under which the people of the Territory,
through their proper representatives, might, if they saw fit, prohibit
the existence of slavery therein.
And now I state it as a fact, to be taken back if there is any mistake
about it, that Judge Douglas and those acting with him voted that
amendment down. I now think that those who voted it down had a real
reason for doing so. They know what that reason was. It looks to us,
since we have seen the Dred Scott decision pronounced, holding that
"under the Constitution" the people cannot exclude slavery—I say it
looks to outsiders, poor, simple, "amiable, intelligent gentlemen," as
though the niche was left as a place to put that Dred Scott decision
in, a niche that would have been spoiled by adopting the amendment. And
now I say again, if this was not the reason, it will avail the Judge
much more to calmly and good-humouredly point out to these people what
that other reason was for voting the amendment down, than swelling
himself up to vociferate that he may be provoked to call somebody a
liar.
Again, there is in that same quotation from the Nebraska bill this
clause: "it being the true intent and meaning of this bill not to
legislate slavery into any Territory or State." I have always been
puzzled to know what business the word "State" had in that connection.
Judge Douglas knows—he put it there. He knows what he put it there for.
We outsiders cannot say what he put it there for. The law they were
passing was not about States, and was not making provision for States.
What was it placed there for? After seeing the Dred Scott decision,
which holds that the people cannot exclude slavery from a Territory, if
another Dred Scott decision shall come, holding that they cannot exclude
it from a State, we shall discover that when the word was originally put
there, it was in view of something that was to come in due time; we
shall see that it was the other half of something. I now say again, if
there was any different reason for putting it there, Judge Douglas, in a
good-humoured way, without calling anybody a liar, can tell what the
reason was....
Now, my friends, ... I ask the attention of the people here assembled,
and elsewhere, to the course that Judge Douglas is pursuing every day as
bearing upon this question of making slavery national. Not going back to
the records, but taking the speeches he makes, the speeches he made
yesterday and the day before, and makes constantly, all over the
country, I ask your attention to them. In the first place, what is
necessary to make the institution national? Not war: there is no danger
that the people of Kentucky will shoulder their muskets and ... march
into Illinois to force the blacks upon us. There is no danger of our
going over there, and making war upon them. Then what is necessary for
the nationalization of slavery? It is simply the next Dred Scott
decision. It is merely for the Supreme Court to decide that no State
under the Constitution can exclude it, just as they have already decided
that under the Constitution neither Congress nor the territorial
legislature can do it. When that is decided and acquiesced in, the whole
thing is done. This being true and this being the way, as I think, that
slavery is to be made national, let us consider what Judge Douglas is
doing every day to that end. In the first place, let us see what
influence he is exerting on public sentiment. In this and like
communities, public sentiment is everything. With public sentiment
nothing can fail; without it nothing can succeed. Consequently he who
moulds public sentiment goes deeper than he who enacts statutes or
pronounces decisions. He makes statutes and decisions possible or
impossible to be executed. This must be borne in mind, as also the
additional fact that Judge Douglas is a man of vast influence, so great
that it is enough for many men to profess to believe anything when they
once find out that Judge Douglas professes to believe it. Consider also
the attitude he occupies at the head of a large party,—a party which he
claims has a majority of all the voters in the country.
This man sticks to a decision which forbids the people of a Territory to
exclude slavery, and he does so not because he says it is right in
itself,—he does not give any opinion on that,—but because it has been
decided by the Court, and, being decided by the Court, he is, and you
are, bound to take it in your political action as law,—not that he
judges at all of its merits, but because a decision of the Court is to
him a "Thus saith the Lord." He places it on that ground alone, and you
will bear in mind that thus committing himself unreservedly to this
decision, commits himself just as firmly to the next one as to this. He
did not commit himself on account of the merit or demerit of the
decision, but it is a "Thus saith the Lord." The next decision as much
as this will be a "Thus saith the Lord." There is nothing that can
divert or turn him away from this decision. It is nothing that I point
out to him that his great prototype, General Jackson, did not believe in
the binding force of decisions. It is nothing to him that Jefferson did
not so believe. I have said that I have often heard him approve of
Jackson's course in disregarding the decision of the Supreme Court
pronouncing a national bank constitutional. He says I did not hear him
say so. He denies the accuracy of my recollection. I say he ought to
know better than I, but I will make no question about this thing, though
it still seems to me that I heard him say it twenty times. I will tell
him, though, that he now claims to stand on the Cincinnati platform,
which affirms that Congress cannot charter a national bank in the teeth
of that old standing decision that Congress can charter a bank. And I
remind him of another piece of Illinois history on the question of
respect for judicial decisions, and it is a piece of Illinois history
belonging to a time when a large party to which Judge Douglas belonged,
were displeased with a decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois,
because they had decided that a Governor could not remove a secretary of
State, and I know that Judge Douglas will not deny that he was then in
favour of over-slaughing that decision, by the mode of adding five new
Judges, so as to vote down the four old ones. Not only so, but it ended
in the Judge's sitting down on the very bench as one of the five new
judges to break down the four old ones. It was in this way precisely
that he got his title of Judge. Now, when the Judge tells me that men
appointed conditionally to sit as members of a Court will have to be
catechized beforehand upon some subject, I say, "You know, Judge; you
have tried it!" When he says a Court of this kind will lose the
confidence of all men, will be prostituted and disgraced by such a
proceeding, I say, "You know best, Judge; you have been through the
mill."
But I cannot shake Judge Douglas's teeth loose from the Dred Scott
decision. Like some obstinate animal (I mean no disrespect) that will
hang on when he has once got his teeth fixed—you may cut off a leg, or
you may tear away an arm, still he will not relax his hold. And so I may
point out to the Judge, and say that he is bespattered all over, from
the beginning of his political life to the present time, with attacks
upon judicial decisions,—I may cut off limb after limb of his public
record, and strive to wrench from him a single dictum of the Court, yet
I cannot divert him from it. He hangs to the last to the Dred Scott
decision.... Henry Clay, my beau ideal of a statesman, ... once said of
a class of men who would repress all tendencies to liberty and ultimate
emancipation, that they must, if they would do this, go back to the era
of our independence, and muzzle the cannon that thunders its annual
joyous return; that they must blow out the moral lights around us; they
must penetrate the human soul, and eradicate there the love of liberty;
and then, and not till then, could they perpetuate slavery in this
country! To my thinking, Judge Douglas is, by his example and vast
influence, doing that very thing in this community when he says that the
negro has nothing in the Declaration of Independence. Henry Clay plainly
understood the contrary. Judge Douglas is going back to the era of our
Revolution, and, to the extent of his ability, muzzling the cannon which
thunders its annual joyous return. When he invites any people, willing
to have slavery, to establish it, he is blowing out the moral lights
around us. When he says he "cares not whether slavery is voted down or
voted up,"—that it is a sacred right of self-government,—he is, in my
judgment, penetrating the human soul and eradicating the light of reason
and the love of liberty in this American people. And now I will only
say, that when, by all these means and appliances, Judge Douglas shall
succeed in bringing public sentiment to an exact accordance with his own
views; when these vast assemblages shall echo back all these sentiments;
when they shall come to repeat his views and avow his principles, and to
say all that he says on these mighty questions,—then it needs only the
formality of a second Dred Scott decision, which he indorses in advance,
to make slavery alike lawful in all the States, old as well as new,
North as well as South.
... The plain truth is this. At the introduction of the Nebraska policy,
we believed there was a new era being introduced in the history of the
Republic, which tended to the spread and perpetuation of slavery. But in
our opposition to that measure we did not agree with one another in
everything. The people in the north end of the State were for stronger
measures of opposition than we of the southern and central portions of
the State, but we were all opposed to the Nebraska doctrine. We had that
one feeling and one sentiment in common. You at the north end met in
your conventions, and passed your resolutions. We in the middle of the
State and further south did not hold such conventions and pass the same
resolutions, although we had in general a common view and a common
sentiment. So that these meetings which the Judge has alluded to, and
the resolutions he has read from, were local, and did not spread over
the whole State. We at last met together in 1856, from all parts of the
State, and we agreed upon a common platform. You who held more extreme
notions, either yielded those notions, or if not wholly yielding them,
agreed to yield them practically, for the sake of embodying the
opposition to the measures which the opposite party were pushing forward
at that time. We met you then, and if there was anything yielded, it was
for practical purposes. We agreed then upon a platform for the party
throughout the entire State of Illinois, and now we are all bound as a
party to that platform. And I say here to you, if any one expects of me
in the case of my election, that I will do anything not signified by
our Republican platform and my answers here to-day, I tell you very
frankly, that person will be deceived. I do not ask for the vote of any
one who supposes that I have secret purposes or pledges that I dare not
speak out.... If I should never be elected to any office, I trust I may
go down with no stain of falsehood upon my reputation, notwithstanding
the hard opinions Judge Douglas chooses to entertain of me.
Ladies and Gentlemen, There is very much in the principles that Judge
Douglas has here enunciated that I most cordially approve, and over
which I shall have no controversy with him. In so far as he insisted
that all the States have the right to do exactly as they please about
all their domestic relations, including that of slavery, I agree
entirely with him. He places me wrong in spite of all I tell him, though
I repeat it again and again, insisting that I have made no difference
with him upon this subject. I have made a great many speeches, some of
which have been printed, and it will be utterly impossible for him to
find anything that I have ever put in print contrary to what I now say
on the subject. I hold myself under constitutional obligations to allow
the people in all the States, without interference, direct or indirect,
to do exactly as they please, and I deny that I have any inclination to
interfere with them, even if there were no such constitutional
obligation. I can only say again that I am placed improperly—altogether
improperly, in spite of all that I can say—when it is insisted that I
entertain any other view or purpose in regard to that matter.
While I am upon this subject, I will make some answers briefly to
certain propositions that Judge Douglas has put. He says, "Why can't
this Union endure permanently half slave and half free?" I have said
that I supposed it could not, and I will try, before this new audience,
to give briefly some of the reasons for entertaining that opinion.
Another form of his question is, "Why can't we let it stand as our
fathers placed it?" That is the exact difficulty between us. I say that
Judge Douglas and his friends have changed it from the position in which
our fathers originally placed it.
I say in the way our fathers originally left the slavery question, the
institution was in the course of ultimate extinction. I say when this
government was first established, it was the policy of its founders to
prohibit the spread of slavery into the new Territories of the United
States where it had not existed. But Judge Douglas and his friends have
broken up that policy, and placed it upon a new basis, by which it is to
become national and perpetual. All I have asked or desired anywhere is
that it should be placed back again upon the basis that the fathers of
our government originally placed it upon. I have no doubt that it would
become extinct for all time to come, if we had but readopted the policy
of the fathers by restricting it to the limits it has already
covered—restricting it from the new Territories.
I do not wish to dwell on this branch of the subject at great length at
this time, but allow me to repeat one thing that I have stated before.
Brooks, the man who assaulted Senator Sumner on the floor of the Senate,
and who was complimented with dinners and silver pitchers and
gold-headed canes, and a good many other things for that feat, in one of
his speeches declared that when this government was originally
established, nobody expected that the institution of slavery would last
until this day. That was but the opinion of one man, but it is such an
opinion as we can never get from Judge Douglas or anybody in favour of
slavery in the North at all. You can sometimes get it from a Southern
man. He said at the same time that the framers of our government did not
have the knowledge that experience has taught us—that experience and
the invention of the cotton gin have taught us that the perpetuation of
slavery is a necessity. He insisted therefore upon its being changed
from the basis upon which the fathers of the government left it to the
basis of perpetuation and nationalization.
I insist that this is the difference between Judge Douglas and
myself—that Judge Douglas is helping the change along. I insist upon
this government being placed where our fathers originally placed it.
... When he asks me why we cannot get along with it [slavery] in the
attitude where our fathers placed it, he had better clear up the
evidences that he has himself changed it from that basis; that he has
himself been chiefly instrumental in changing the policy of the fathers.
Any one who will read his speech of the twenty-second of March last,
will see that he there makes an open confession, showing that he set
about fixing the institution upon an altogether different set of
principles....
Now, fellow-citizens, in regard to this matter about a contract between
myself and Judge Trumbull, and myself and all that long portion of Judge
Douglas's speech on this subject. I wish simply to say, what I have said
to him before, that he cannot know whether it is true or not, and I do
know that there is not a word of truth in it. And I have told him so
before. I don't want any harsh language indulged in, but I do not know
how to deal with this persistent insisting on a story that I know to be
utterly without truth. It used to be the fashion amongst men that when a
charge was made, some sort of proof was brought forward to establish it,
and if no proof was found to exist, it was dropped. I don't know how to
meet this kind of an argument. I don't want to have a fight with Judge
Douglas, and I have no way of making an argument up into the consistency
of a corn-cob and stopping his mouth with it. All I can do is
good-humouredly to say, that from the beginning to the end of all that
story about a bargain between Judge Trumbull and myself, there is not a
word of truth in it....
When that compromise [of 1850] was made, it did not repeal the old
Missouri Compromise. It left a region of United States territory half as
large as the present territory of the United States, north of the line
of 36° 30', in which slavery was prohibited by act of Congress. This
compromise did not repeal that one. It did not affect nor propose to
repeal it. But at last it became Judge Douglas's duty, as he thought
(and I find no fault with him), as chairman of the Committee on
Territories, to bring in a bill for the organization of a territorial
government—first of one, then of two Territories north of that line.
When he did so, it ended in his inserting a provision substantially
repealing the Missouri Compromise. That was because the Compromise of
1850 had not repealed it. And now I ask why he could not have left that
compromise alone? We were quiet from the agitation of the slavery
question. We were making no fuss about it. All had acquiesced in the
compromise measures of 1850. We never had been seriously disturbed by
any Abolition agitation before that period.... I close this part of the
discussion on my part by asking him the question again, Why, when we had
peace under the Missouri Compromise, could you not have let it alone?
He tries to persuade us that there must be a variety in the different
institutions of the States of the Union; that that variety necessarily
proceeds from the variety of soil, climate, of the face of the country,
and the difference of the natural features of the States. I agree to all
that. Have these very matters ever produced any difficulty amongst us?
Not at all. Have we ever had any quarrel over the fact that they have
laws in Louisiana designed to regulate the commerce that springs from
the production of sugar, or because we have a different class relative
to the production of flour in this State? Have they produced any
differences? Not at all. They are the very cements of this Union. They
don't make the house a house divided against itself. They are the props
that hold up the house and sustain the Union.
But has it been so with this element of slavery? Have we not always had
quarrels and difficulties over it? And when will we cease to have
quarrels over it? Like causes produce like effects. It is worth while to
observe that we have generally had comparative peace upon the slavery
question, and that there has been no cause for alarm until it was
excited by the effort to spread it into new territory. Whenever it has
been limited to its present bounds, and there has been no effort to
spread it, there has been peace. All the trouble and convulsion has
proceeded from efforts to spread it over more territory. It was thus at
the date of the Missouri Compromise. It was so again with the annexation
of Texas; so with the territory acquired by the Mexican War; and it is
so now. Whenever there has been an effort to spread it, there has been
agitation and resistance. Now, I appeal to this audience (very few of
whom are my political friends), as rational men, whether we have reason
to expect that the agitation in regard to this subject will cease while
the causes that tend to reproduce agitation are actively at work? Will
not the same cause that produced agitation in 1820, when the Missouri
Compromise was formed,—that which produced the agitation upon the
annexation of Texas, and at other times,—work out the same results
always? Do you think that the nature of man will be changed; that the
same causes that produced agitation at one time will not have the same
effect at another?
This has been the result so far as my observation of the slavery
question and my reading in history extend. What right have we then to
hope that the trouble will cease, that the agitation will come to an
end, until it shall either be placed back where it originally stood, and
where the fathers originally placed it, or, on the other hand, until it
shall entirely master all opposition? This is the view I entertain, and
this is the reason why I entertained it, as Judge Douglas has read from
my Springfield speech.
... At Freeport I answered several interrogatories that had been
propounded to me by Judge Douglas at the Ottawa meeting.... At the same
time I propounded four interrogatories to him, claiming it as a right
that he should answer as many for me as I did for him, and I would
reserve myself for a future instalment when I got them ready. The Judge,
in answering me upon that occasion, put in what I suppose he intends as
answers to all four of my interrogatories. The first one of these I
have before me, and it is in these words:
Question 1.If the people of Kansas shall by means entirely
     unobjectionable in all other respects, adopt a State constitution
     and ask admission into the Union under it, before they have the
     requisite number of inhabitants according to the English bill—some
     93,000—will you vote to admit them?
As I read the Judge's answer in the newspaper, and as I remember it as
pronounced at the time, he does not give any answer which is equivalent
to yes or no,—I will or I won't. He answers at very considerable
length, rather quarrelling with me for asking the question, and
insisting that Judge Trumbull had done something that I ought to say
something about; and finally, getting out such statements as induce me
to infer that he means to be understood, he will, in that supposed case,
vote for the admission of Kansas. I only bring this forward now, for the
purpose of saying that, if he chooses to put a different construction
upon his answer, he may do it. But if he does not, I shall from this
time forward assume that he will vote for the admission of Kansas in
disregard of the English bill. He has the right to remove any
misunderstanding I may have. I only mention it now, that I may hereafter
assume this to have been the true construction of his answer, if he does
not now choose to correct me.
The second interrogatory I propounded to him was this:
Question 2.Can the people of a United States Territory in any
     lawful way, against the wish of any citizen of the United States,
     exclude slavery from its limits prior to the formation of a State
     constitution?
To this Judge Douglas answered that they can lawfully exclude slavery
from the Territory prior to the formation of a constitution. He goes
on to tell us how it can be done. As I understand him, he holds that
it can be done by the territorial legislature refusing to make any
enactments for the protection of slavery in the Territory, and
especially by adopting unfriendly legislation to it. For the sake of
clearness, I state it again: that they can exclude slavery from the
Territory,—first, by withholding what he assumes to be an indispensable
assistance to it in the way of legislation; and second, by unfriendly
legislation. If I rightly understand him, I wish to ask your attention
for a while to his position.
In the first place, the Supreme Court of the United States has decided
that any congressional prohibition of slavery in the Territories is
unconstitutional: they have reached this proposition as a conclusion
from their former proposition that the Constitution of the United States
expressly recognizes property in slaves; and from that other
constitutional provision that no person shall be deprived of property
without due process of law. Hence they reach the conclusion that as the
Constitution of the United States expressly recognizes property in
slaves, and prohibits any person from being deprived of property without
due process of law, to pass an act of Congress by which a man who owned
a slave on one side of a line would be deprived of him if he took him on
the other side, is depriving him of that property without due process of
law. That I understand to be the decision of the Supreme Court. I
understand also that Judge Douglas adheres most firmly to that decision;
and the difficulty is, how is it possible for any power to exclude
slavery from the Territory unless in violation of that decision? That is
the difficulty.
In the Senate of the United States, in 1856, Judge Trumbull in a speech,
substantially if not directly, put the same interrogatory to Judge
Douglas, as to whether the people of a Territory had the lawful power to
exclude slavery prior to the formation of a constitution? Judge Douglas
then answered at considerable length, and his answer will be found in
the "Congressional Globe," under date of June 9, 1856. The Judge said
that whether the people could exclude slavery prior to the formation of
a constitution or not, was a question to be decided by the Supreme
Court. He put that proposition, as will be seen by the "Congressional
Globe," in a variety of forms, all running to the same thing in
substance,—that it was a question for the Supreme Court. I maintain
that when he says, after the Supreme Court has decided the question,
that the people may yet exclude slavery by any means whatever, he does
virtually say that it is not a question for the Supreme Court. He shifts
his ground. I appeal to you whether he did not say it was a question for
the Supreme Court? Has not the Supreme Court decided that question? When
he now says that the people may exclude slavery, does he not make it a
question for the people? Does he not virtually shift his ground and say
that it is not a question for the court, but for the people? This is a
very simple proposition,—a very plain and naked one. It seems to me
that there is no difficulty in deciding it. In a variety of ways he said
that it was a question for the Supreme Court. He did not stop then to
tell us that, whatever the Supreme Court decides, the people can by
withholding necessary "police regulations" keep slavery out. He did not
make any such answer. I submit to you now, whether the new state of the
case has not induced the Judge to sheer away from his original ground?
Would not this be the impression of every fair-minded man?
I hold that the proposition that slavery cannot enter a new country
without police regulations is historically false. It is not true at all.
I hold that the history of this country shows that the institution of
slavery was originally planted upon this continent without these "police
regulations" which the Judge now thinks necessary for the actual
establishment of it. Not only so, but is there not another fact,—how
came this Dred Scott decision to be made? It was made upon the case of a
negro being taken and actually held in slavery in Minnesota Territory,
claiming his freedom because the act of Congress prohibited his being so
held there. Will the Judge pretend that Dred Scott was not held there
without police regulations? There is at least one matter of record as to
his having been held in slavery in the Territory, not only without
police regulations, but in the teeth of congressional legislation
supposed to be valid at the time. This shows that there is vigour enough
in slavery to plant itself in a new country, even against unfriendly
legislation. It takes not only law, but the enforcement of law to keep
it out. That is the history of this country upon the subject.
I wish to ask one other question. It being understood that the
Constitution of the United States guarantees property in slaves in the
Territories, if there is any infringement of the right of that property,
would not the United States courts, organized for the government of the
Territory, apply such remedy as might be necessary in that case? It is a
maxim held by the courts that there is no wrong without its remedy; and
the courts have a remedy for whatever is acknowledged and treated as a
wrong.
Again: I will ask you, my friends, if you were elected members of the
legislature, what would be the first thing you would have to do before
entering upon your duties? Swear to support the Constitution of the
United States. Suppose you believe as Judge Douglas does, that the
Constitution of the United States guarantees to your neighbour the right
to hold slaves in that Territory,—that they are his property,—how can
you clear your oaths unless you give him such legislation as is
necessary to enable him to enjoy that property? What do you understand
by supporting the Constitution of a State or of the United States? Is it
not to give such constitutional helps to the rights established by that
Constitution as may be practically needed? Can you, if you swear to
support the Constitution and believe that the Constitution establishes a
right, clear your oath without giving it support? Do you support the
Constitution if, knowing or believing there is a right established under
it which needs specific legislation, you withhold that legislation? Do
you not violate and disregard your oath? I can conceive of nothing
plainer in the world. There can be nothing in the words "support the
Constitution," if you may run counter to it by refusing support to any
right established under the Constitution. And what I say here will hold
with still more force against the Judge's doctrine of "unfriendly
legislation." How could you, having sworn to support the Constitution,
and believing that it guaranteed the right to hold slaves in the
Territories, assist in legislation intended to defeat that right? That
would be violating your own view of the Constitution. Not only so, but
if you were to do so, how long would it take the courts to hold your
votes unconstitutional and void? Not a moment.
Lastly, I would ask, is not Congress itself under obligation to give
legislative support to any right that is established under the United
States Constitution? I repeat the question, is not Congress itself bound
to give legislative support to any right that is established in the
United States Constitution? A member of Congress swears to support the
Constitution of the United States, and if he sees a right established by
that Constitution which needs specific legislative protection, can he
clear his oath without giving that protection? Let me ask you why many
of us, who are opposed to slavery upon principle, give our acquiescence
to a fugitive-slave law? Why do we hold ourselves under obligations to
pass such a law, and abide by it when passed? Because the Constitution
makes provision that the owners of slaves shall have the right to
reclaim them. It gives the right to reclaim slaves; and that right is,
as Judge Douglas says, a barren right, unless there is legislation that
will enforce it.
The mere declaration, "No person held to service or labour in one State,
under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of
any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or
labour, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such
service or labour may be due," is powerless without specific legislation
to enforce it. Now, on what ground would a member of Congress who is
opposed to slavery in the abstract, vote for a fugitive law, as I would
deem it my duty to do? Because there is a constitutional right which
needs legislation to enforce it. And, although it is distasteful to me,
I have sworn to support the Constitution; and, having so sworn, I
cannot conceive that I do support it if I withhold from that right any
necessary legislation to make it practical. And if that is true in
regard to a fugitive-slave law, is the right to have fugitive slaves
reclaimed any better fixed in the Constitution than the right to hold
slaves in the Territories? For this decision is a just exposition of the
Constitution, as Judge Douglas thinks. Is the one right any better than
the other? If I wished to refuse to give legislative support to slave
property in the Territories, if a member of Congress, I could not do it,
holding the view that the Constitution establishes that right. If I did
it at all, it would be because I deny that this decision properly
construes the Constitution. But if I acknowledge with Judge Douglas that
this decision properly construes the Constitution, I cannot conceive
that I would be less than a perjured man if I should refuse in Congress
to give such protection to that property as in its nature it needed....
Judge Douglas has said to you that he has not been able to get from me
an answer to the question whether I am in favour of negro citizenship.
So far as I know, the Judge never asked me the question before. He shall
have no occasion ever to ask it again, for I tell him very frankly that
I am not in favour of negro citizenship.... Now my opinion is, that the
different States have the power to make a negro a citizen under the
Constitution of the United States, if they choose. The Dred Scott
decision decides that they have not that power. If the State of Illinois
had that power, I should be opposed to the exercise of it. That is all I
have to say about it.
Judge Douglas has told me that he heard my speeches north and my
speeches south, ... and there was a very different cast of sentiment in
the speeches made at the different points. I will not charge upon Judge
Douglas that he wilfully misrepresents me, but I call upon every
fair-minded man to take these speeches and read them, and I dare him to
point out any difference between my speeches north and south. While I am
here, perhaps I ought to say a word, if I have the time, in regard to
the latter portion of the Judge's speech, which was a sort of
declamation in reference to my having said that I entertained the belief
that this government would not endure, half slave and half free. I have
said so, and I did not say it without what seemed to me good reasons. It
perhaps would require more time than I have now to set forth those
reasons in detail; but let me ask you a few questions. Have we ever had
any peace on this slavery question? When are we to have peace upon it if
it is kept in the position it now occupies? How are we ever to have
peace upon it? That is an important question. To be sure, if we will all
stop and allow Judge Douglas and his friends to march on in their
present career until they plant the institution all over the nation,
here and wherever else our flag waves, and we acquiesce in it, there
will be peace. But let me ask Judge Douglas how he is going to get the
people to do that? They have been wrangling over this question for forty
years. This was the cause of the agitation resulting in the Missouri
Compromise; this produced the troubles at the annexation of Texas, in
the acquisition of the territory acquired in the Mexican War. Again,
this was the trouble quieted by the Compromise of 1850, when it was
settled "for ever," as both the great political parties declared in
their national conventions. That "for ever" turned out to be just four
years, when Judge Douglas himself reopened it.
When is it likely to come to an end? He introduced the Nebraska bill in
1854, to put another end to the slavery agitation. He promised that it
would finish it all up immediately, and he has never made a speech
since, until he got into a quarrel with the President about the
Lecompton constitution, in which he has not declared that we are just at
the end of the slavery agitation. But in one speech, I think last
winter, he did say that he didn't quite see when the end of the slavery
agitation would come. Now he tells us again that it is all over, and the
people of Kansas have voted down the Lecompton constitution. How is it
over? That was only one of the attempts to put an end to the slavery
agitation,—one of these "final settlements." Is Kansas in the Union?
Has she formed a constitution that she is likely to come in under? Is
not the slavery agitation still an open question in that Territory?...
If Kansas should sink to-day, and leave a great vacant space in the
earth's surface, this vexed question would still be among us. I say,
then, there is no way of putting an end to the slavery agitation amongst
us, but to put it back upon the basis where our fathers placed it; no
way but to keep it out of our new Territories,—to restrict it for ever
to the old States where it now exists. Then the public mind will rest in
the belief that it is in the course of ultimate extinction. That is one
way of putting an end to the slavery agitation.
The other way is for us to surrender, and let Judge Douglas and his
friends have their way, and plant slavery over all the States,—cease
speaking of it as in any way a wrong—regard slavery as one of the
common matters of property, and speak of our negroes as we do of our
horse and cattle.
... The Judge has alluded to the Declaration of Independence, and
insisted that negroes are not included in that Declaration; and that it
is a slander on the framers of that instrument to suppose that negroes
were meant therein; and he asks you, Is it possible to believe that Mr.
Jefferson, who penned that immortal paper, could have supposed himself
applying the language of that instrument to the negro race, and yet held
a portion of that race in slavery? Would he not at once have freed
them? I only have to remark upon this part of his speech (and that too,
very briefly, for I shall not detain myself or you upon that point for
any great length of time), that I believe the entire records of the
world, from the date of the Declaration of Independence up to within
three years ago, may be searched in vain for one single affirmation from
one single man, that the negro was not included in the Declaration of
Independence; I think I may defy Judge Douglas to show that he ever said
so, that Washington ever said so, that any President ever said so, that
any member of Congress ever said so, or that any living man upon the
whole earth ever said so, until the necessities of the present policy of
the Democratic party in regard to slavery had to invent that
affirmation. And I will remind Judge Douglas and this audience, that
while Mr. Jefferson was the owner of slaves, as undoubtedly he was, in
speaking on this very subject, he used the strong language that "he
trembled for his country when he remembered that God was just;" and I
will offer the highest premium in my power to Judge Douglas if he will
show that he, in all his life, ever uttered a sentiment at all akin to
that of Jefferson.
... I want to call to the Judge's attention an attack he made upon me in
the first one of these debates.... In order to fix extreme Abolitionism
upon me, Judge Douglas read a set of resolutions which he declared had
been passed by a Republican State Convention, in October 1854, held at
Springfield, Illinois, and he declared that I had taken a part in that
convention. It turned out that although a few men calling themselves an
anti-Nebraska State Convention had sat at Springfield about that time,
yet neither did I take any part in it, nor did it pass the resolutions
or any such resolutions as Judge Douglas read. So apparent had it become
that the resolutions that he read had not been passed at Springfield at
all, nor by any State Convention in which I had taken part, that seven
days later at Freeport ... Judge Douglas declared that he had been
misled ... and promised ... that when he went to Springfield he would
investigate the matter.... I have waited as I think a sufficient time
for the report of that investigation.
... A fraud, an absolute forgery, was committed, and the perpetration of
it was traced to the three,—Lanphier, Harris, and Douglas.... Whether
it can be narrowed in any way, so as to exonerate any one of them, is
what Judge Douglas's report would probably show. The main object of that
forgery at that time was to beat Yates and elect Harris to Congress, and
that object was known to be exceedingly dear to Judge Douglas at that
time.
... The fraud having been apparently successful upon that occasion, both
Harris and Douglas have more than once since then been attempting to put
it to new uses. As the fisherman's wife, whose drowned husband was
brought home with his body full of eels, said, when she was asked what
was to be done with him, 'Take out the eels and set him again,' so
Harris and Douglas have shown a disposition to take the eels out of that
stale fraud by which they gained Harris's election, and set the fraud
again, more than once.... And now that it has been discovered publicly
to be a fraud, we find that Judge Douglas manifests no surprise at
all.... But meanwhile the three are agreed that each is a most
honourable man.
Suppose it is true that the negro is inferior to the white in the gifts
of nature; is it not the exact reverse of justice that the white should
for that reason take from the negro any part of the little which he has
had given him? "Give to him that is needy" is the Christian rule of
charity; but "Take from him that is needy" is the rule of slavery.
The sum of pro-slavery theology seems to be this: "Slavery is not
universally right, nor yet universally wrong; it is better for some
people to be slaves; and, in such cases, it is the will of God that they
be such."
Certainly there is no contending against the will of God; but still
there is some difficulty in ascertaining and applying it to particular
cases. For instance, we will suppose the Rev. Dr. Ross has a slave named
Sambo, and the question is, "Is it the will of God that Sambo shall
remain a slave, or be set free?" The Almighty gives no audible answer to
the question, and his revelation, the Bible, gives none—or at most none
but such as admits of a squabble as to its meaning; no one thinks of
asking Sambo's opinion on it. So at last it comes to this, that Dr. Ross
is to decide the question; and while he considers it, he sits in the
shade, with gloves on his hands, and subsists on the bread that Sambo is
earning in the burning sun. If he decides that God wills Sambo to
continue a slave, he thereby retains his own comfortable position; but
if he decides that God wills Sambo to be free, he thereby has to walk
out of the shade, throw off his gloves, and delve for his own bread.
Will Dr. Ross be actuated by the perfect impartiality which has ever
been considered most favourable to correct decisions?
We have in this nation the element of domestic slavery. It is a matter
of absolute certainty that it is a disturbing element. It is the opinion
of all the great men who have expressed an opinion upon it, that it is a
dangerous element. We keep up a controversy in regard to it. That
controversy necessarily springs from difference of opinion, and if we
can learn exactly—can reduce to the lowest elements—what that
difference of opinion is, we perhaps shall be better prepared for
discussing the different systems of policy that we would propose in
regard to that disturbing element.
I suggest that the difference of opinion, reduced to its lowest terms,
is no other than the difference between the men who think slavery a
wrong and those who do not think it wrong. The Republican party think it
wrong—we think it is a moral, a social, and a political wrong. We think
it is a wrong not confining itself merely to the persons or the States
where it exists, but that it is a wrong which in its tendency, to say
the least, affects the existence of the whole nation. Because we think
it wrong, we propose a course of policy that shall deal with it as a
wrong.
We deal with it as with any other wrong, in so far as we can prevent its
growing any larger, and so deal with it that in the run of time there
may be some promise of an end to it We have a due regard to the actual
presence of it amongst us, and the difficulties of getting rid of it in
any satisfactory way, and all the constitutional obligations thrown
about it. I suppose that in reference both to its actual existence in
the nation, and to our constitutional obligations, we have no right at
all to disturb it in the States where it exists, and we profess that we
have no more inclination to disturb it than we have the right to do it.
We go further than that: we don't propose to disturb it where, in one
instance, we think the Constitution would permit us. We think the
Constitution would permit us to disturb it in the District of Columbia.
Still we do not propose to do that, unless it should be in terms which I
don't suppose the nation is very likely soon to agree to—the terms of
making the emancipation gradual and compensating the unwilling owners.
Where we suppose we have the constitutional right, we restrain ourselves
in reference to the actual existence of the institution and the
difficulties thrown about it. We also oppose it as an evil so far as it
seeks to spread itself. We insist on the policy that shall restrict it
to its present limits. We don't suppose that in doing this we violate
anything due to the actual presence of the institution, or anything due
to the constitutional guaranties thrown around it.
We oppose the Dred Scott decision in a certain way, upon which I ought
perhaps to address you in a few words. We do not propose that when Dred
Scott has been decided to be a slave by the court, we, as a mob, will
decide him to be free. We do not propose that, when any other one, or
one thousand, shall be decided by that court to be slaves, we will in
any violent way disturb the rights of property thus settled; but we
nevertheless do oppose that decision as a political rule, which shall be
binding on the voter to vote for nobody who thinks it wrong, which shall
be binding on the members of Congress or the President to favour no
measure that does not actually concur with the principles of that
decision. We do not propose to be bound by it as a political rule in
that way, because we think it lays the foundation not merely of
enlarging and spreading out what we consider an evil, but it lays the
foundation for spreading that evil into the States themselves. We
propose so resisting it as to have it reversed if we can, and a new
judicial rule established upon this subject.
I will add this, that if there be any man who does not believe that
slavery is wrong in the three aspects which I have mentioned, or in any
one of them, that man is misplaced and ought to leave us. While, on the
other hand, if there be any man in the Republican party who is impatient
over the necessity springing from its actual presence, and is impatient
of the constitutional guaranties thrown around it, and would act in
disregard of these, he too is misplaced, standing with us. He will find
his place somewhere else; for we have a due regard, so far as we are
capable of understanding them, for all these things. This, gentlemen, as
well as I can give it, is a plain statement of our principles in all
their enormity.
I will say now that there is a sentiment in the country contrary to
me—a sentiment which holds that slavery is not wrong, and therefore
goes for the policy that does not propose dealing with it as a wrong.
That policy is the Democratic policy, and that sentiment is the
Democratic sentiment. If there be a doubt in the mind of any one of this
vast audience that this is really the central idea of the Democratic
party, in relation to this subject, I ask him to bear with me while I
state a few things tending, as I think, to prove that proposition.
In the first place, the leading man,—I think I may do my friend Judge
Douglas the honour of calling him such,—advocating the present
Democratic policy, never himself says it is wrong. He has the high
distinction, so far as I know, of never having said slavery is either
right or wrong. Almost everybody else says one or the other, but the
Judge never does. If there be a man in the Democratic party who thinks
it is wrong, and yet clings to that party, I suggest to him in the first
place that his leader don't talk as he does, for he never says that it
is wrong.
In the second place, I suggest to him that if he will examine the policy
proposed to be carried forward, he will find that he carefully excludes
the idea that there is anything wrong in it. If you will examine the
arguments that are made on it, you will find that every one carefully
excludes the idea that there is anything wrong in slavery.
Perhaps that Democrat who says he is as much opposed to slavery as I am
will tell me that I am wrong about this. I wish him to examine his own
course in regard to this matter a moment, and then see if his opinion
will not be changed a little. You say it is wrong; but don't you
constantly object to anybody else saying so? Do you not constantly argue
that this is not the right place to oppose it? You say it must not be
opposed in the free States, because slavery is not there; it must not be
opposed in the slave States, because it is there; it must not be opposed
in politics, because that will make a fuss; it must not be opposed in
the pulpit, because it is not religion. Then where is the place to
oppose it? There is no suitable place to oppose it. There is no plan in
the country to oppose this evil overspreading the continent, which you
say yourself is coming. Frank Blair and Gratz Brown tried to get up a
system of gradual emancipation in Missouri, had an election in August,
and got beat; and you, Mr. Democrat, threw up your hat and hallooed,
"Hurrah for Democracy!"
So I say again, that in regard to the arguments that are made, when
Judge Douglas says he "don't care whether slavery is voted up or voted
down," whether he means that as an individual expression of sentiment,
or only as a sort of statement of his views on national policy, it is
alike true to say that he can thus argue logically if he don't see
anything wrong in it; but he cannot say so logically if he admits that
slavery is wrong. He cannot say that he would as soon see a wrong voted
up as voted down. When Judge Douglas says that whoever or whatever
community wants slaves, they have a right to have them, he is perfectly
logical if there is nothing wrong in the institution; but if you admit
that it is wrong, he cannot logically say that anybody has a right to do
wrong. When he says that slave property and horse and hog property are
alike to be allowed to go into the Territories, upon the principles of
equality, he is reasoning truly if there is no difference between them
as property; but if the one is property, held rightfully, and the other
is wrong, then there is no equality between the right and wrong; so
that, turn it in any way you can, in all the arguments sustaining the
Democratic policy, and in that policy itself, there is a careful,
studied exclusion of the idea that there is anything wrong in slavery.
Let us understand this. I am not, just here, trying to prove that we are
right and they are wrong. I have been stating where we and they stand,
and trying to show what is the real difference between us; and I now say
that whenever we can get the question distinctly stated,—can get all
these men who believe that slavery is in some of these respects wrong,
to stand and act with us in treating it as a wrong,—then, and not till
then, I think, will we in some way come to an end of this slavery
agitation.
... But is it true that all the difficulty and agitation we have in
regard to this institution of slavery springs from office-seeking,—from
the mere ambition of politicians? Is that the truth? How many times have
we had danger from this question? Go back to the day of the Missouri
Compromise. Go back to the nullification question, at the bottom of
which lay this same slavery question. Go back to the time of the
annexation of Texas. Go back to the troubles that led to the Compromise
of 1850. You will find that every time, with the single exception of the
nullification question, they sprung from an endeavour to spread this
institution. There never was a party in the history of this country, and
there probably never will be, of sufficient strength to disturb the
general peace of the country. Parties themselves may be divided and
quarrel on minor questions, yet it extends not beyond the parties
themselves. But does not this question make a disturbance outside of
political circles? Does it not enter into the churches and rend them
asunder? What divided the great Methodist Church into two parts, North
and South? What has raised this constant disturbance in every
Presbyterian General Assembly that meets? What disturbed the Unitarian
Church in this very city two years ago? What has jarred and shaken the
great American Tract Society recently,—not yet splitting it, but sure
to divide it in the end? Is it not this same mighty, deep-seated power,
that somehow operates on the minds of men, exciting and stirring them up
in every avenue of society, in politics, in religion, in literature, in
morals, in all the manifold relations of life? Is this the work of
politicians? Is that irresistible power which for fifty years has shaken
the government and agitated the people, to be stilled and subdued by
pretending that it is an exceedingly simple thing, and we ought not to
talk about it? If you will get everybody else to stop talking about it,
I assure you that I will quit before they have half done so. But where
is the philosophy or statesmanship which assumes that you can quiet that
disturbing element in our society, which has disturbed us for more than
half a century, which has been the only serious danger that has
threatened our institutions? I say where is the philosophy or the
statesmanship, based on the assumption that we are to quit talking about
it, and that the public mind is all at once to cease being agitated by
it? Yet this is the policy here in the North that Douglas is
advocating,—that we are to care nothing about it! I ask you if it is
not a false philosophy? Is it not a false statesmanship that undertakes
to build up a system of policy upon the basis of caring nothing about
the very thing that everybody does care the most about,—a thing which
all experience has shown we care a very great deal about?
... The Judge alludes very often in the course of his remarks to the
exclusive right which the States have to decide the whole thing for
themselves. I agree with him very readily.... Our controversy with him
is in regard to the new Territories. We agree that when States come in
as States they have the right and power to do as they please.... We
profess constantly that we have no more inclination than belief in the
power of the government to disturb it; yet we are driven constantly to
defend ourselves from the assumption that we are warring upon the rights
of the States. What I insist upon is, that the new Territories shall be
kept free from it while in the territorial condition ...
... These are false issues, upon which Judge Douglas has tried to force
the controversy....
The real issue in this controversy—the one dressing upon every mind—is
the sentiment on the part of one class that looks upon the institution
of slavery as a wrong, and of another class that does not look upon it
as a wrong. The sentiment that contemplates the institution of slavery
in this country as a wrong is the sentiment of the Republican party. It
is the sentiment around which all their actions, all their arguments,
circle; from which all their propositions radiate. They look upon it as
being a moral, social, and political wrong; and while they contemplate
it as such, they nevertheless have due regard for its actual existence
among us, and the difficulties of getting rid of it in any satisfactory
way, and to all the constitutional obligations thrown about it. Yet,
having a due regard for these, they desire a policy in regard to it that
looks to its not creating any more danger. They insist that it, as far
as may be, be treated as a wrong; and one of the methods of treating it
as a wrong is to make provision that it shall grow no larger. They also
desire a policy that looks to a peaceful end of slavery some time, as
being a wrong. These are the views they entertain in regard to it, as I
understand them; and all their sentiments, all their arguments and
propositions are brought within this range, I have said, and I here
repeat it, that if there be a man amongst us who does not think that the
institution of slavery is wrong in any one of the aspects of which I
have spoken, he is misplaced, and ought not to be with us. And if there
be a man amongst us who is so impatient of it as a wrong as to disregard
its actual presence among us, and the difficulty of getting rid of it
suddenly in a satisfactory way, and to disregard the constitutional
obligations thrown about it, that man is misplaced if he is on our
platform. We disclaim sympathy with him in practical action. He is not
placed properly with us.
On this subject of treating it as a wrong and limiting its spread, let
me say a word. Has anything ever threatened the existence of this Union
save and except this very institution of slavery? What is it that we
hold most dear amongst us? Our own liberty and prosperity. What has ever
threatened our liberty and prosperity save and except this institution
of slavery? If this is true, how do you propose to improve the condition
of things by enlarging slavery,—by spreading it out and making it
bigger? You may have a wen or a cancer upon your person, and not be able
to cut it out lest you bleed to death; but surely it is no way to cure
it, to engraft it and spread it over your whole body. That is no proper
way of treating what you regard as a wrong. You see this peaceful way of
dealing with it as a wrong,—restricting the spread of it, and not
allowing it to go into new countries where it has not already existed.
That is the peaceful way—the old-fashioned way—the way in which the
fathers themselves set us the example.
On the other hand, I have said there is a sentiment which treats it as
not being wrong. That is the Democratic sentiment of this day. I do not
mean to say that every man who stands within that range positively
asserts that it is right. That class will include all who positively
assert that it is right, and all who, like Judge Douglas, treat it as
indifferent, and do not say it is either right or wrong. These two
classes of men fall within the general class of those who do not look
upon it as a wrong. And if there be among you anybody who supposes that
he, as a Democrat, can consider himself "as much opposed to slavery as
anybody," I would like to reason with him. You never treat itasa
wrong. What other thing that you consider a wrong do you deal with as
you deal with that? Perhaps you say it is wrong, but your leader never
does, and you quarrel with anybody who says it is wrong. Although you
pretend to say so yourself, you can find no fit place to deal with it as
a wrong. You must not say anything about it in the free States, because
it is not here. You must not say anything about it in the slave States,
because it is there. You must not say anything about it in the pulpit,
because that is religion, and has nothing to do with it. You must not
say anything about it in politics, because that will disturb the
security of "my place." There is no place to talk about it as being a
wrong, although you say yourself it is a wrong. But, finally, you will
screw yourself up to the belief that if the people of the slave States
should adopt a system of gradual emancipation on the slavery question,
you would be in favour of it. You would be in favour of it! You say that
is getting it in the right place, and you would be glad to see it
succeed. But you are deceiving yourself. You all know that Frank Blair
and Gratz Brown, down there in St. Louis, undertook to introduce that
system in Missouri. They fought as valiantly as they could for the
system of gradual emancipation, which you pretend you would be glad to
see succeed. Now I will bring you to the test. After a hard fight they
were beaten; and when the news came over here, you threw up your hats
and hurrahed for Democracy! More than that; take all the argument made
in favour of the system you have proposed, and it carefully excludes the
idea that there is anything wrong in the institution of slavery. The
arguments to sustain that policy carefully exclude it. Even here to-day,
you heard Judge Douglas quarrel with me, because I uttered a wish that
it might sometime come to an end. Although Henry Clay could say he
wished every slave in the United States was in the country of his
ancestors, I am denounced by those who pretend to respect Henry Clay,
for uttering a wish that it might sometime, in some peaceful way, come
to an end.
The Democratic policy in regard to that institution will not tolerate
the merest breath, the slightest hint, of the least degree of wrong
about it. Try it by some of Judge Douglas's arguments. He says he "don't
care whether it is voted up or voted down in the Territories." I do not
care myself in dealing with that expression whether it is intended to be
expressive of his individual sentiments on the subject or only of the
national policy he desires to have established.
But no man can logically say it who does see a wrong in it; because no
man can logically say he don't care whether a wrong is voted up or voted
down.... Any man can say that who does not see anything wrong in
slavery.... But if it is a wrong, he cannot say that people have a right
to do wrong. He says that, upon the score of equality, slaves should be
allowed to go into a new Territory like other property. This is strictly
logical if there is no difference between it and other property.... But
if you insist that one is wrong and the other right, there is no use to
institute a comparison between right and wrong.... The Democratic policy
everywhere carefully excludes the idea that there is anything wrong in
it.
That is the real issue. That is the issue that will continue in this
country when these poor tongues of Judge Douglas and myself shall be
silent. It is the eternal struggle between these two principles—right
and wrong—throughout the world. They are the two principles that have
stood face to face from the beginning of time, and will ever continue to
struggle.
The one is the common right of humanity, and the other the divine right
of kings. It is the same principle in whatever shape it develops itself.
It is the same spirit that says, "You toil and work and earn bread, and
I'll eat it." No matter in what shape it comes, whether from the mouth
of a king, who seeks to bestride the people of his own nation and live
by the fruit of their labour, or from one race of men as an apology for
enslaving another race,—it is the same tyrannical principle....
Whenever the issue can be distinctly made, and all extraneous matter
thrown out, so that men can fairly see the real difference between the
parties, this controversy will soon be settled, and it will be done
peaceably, too. There will be no war, no violence. It will be placed
again where the wisest and best men of the world placed it.
... The Republican party, as I understand its principles and policy,
believes that there is great danger of the institution of slavery being
spread out and extended, until it is ultimately made alike lawful in all
the States of this Union; so believing, to prevent that incidental and
ultimate consummation is the original and chief purpose of the
Republican organization.
I say "chief purpose" of the Republican organization; for it is
certainly true that if the national House shall fall into the hands of
the Republicans, they will have to attend to all the matters of national
house-keeping as well as this. The chief and real purpose of the
Republican party is eminently conservative. It proposes nothing save and
except to restore this Government to its original tone in regard to this
element of slavery, and there to maintain it, looking for no further
change in reference to it than that which the original framers of the
Government themselves expected and looked forward to.
The chief danger to this purpose of the Republican party is not just now
the revival of the African slave-trade, or the passage of a
Congressional slave-code ... but the most imminent danger that now
threatens that purpose is that insidious Douglas popular sovereignty.
This is the miner and sapper. While it does not propose to revive the
African slave-trade, nor to pass a slave-code, nor to make a second Dred
Scott decision, it is preparing us for the onslaught and charge of these
ultimate enemies when they shall be ready to come on, and the word of
command for them to advance shall be given. I say thisDouglaspopular
sovereignty—for there is a broad distinction, as I now understand it,
between that article and a genuine popular sovereignty.
I believe there is a genuine popular sovereignty. I think a definition
of genuine popular sovereignty in the abstract would be about this: that
each man shall do precisely as he pleases with himself, and with all
those things which exclusively concern him. Applied to governments, this
principle would be, that a general government shall do all those things
which pertain to it; and all the local governments shall do precisely as
they please in respect to those matters which exclusively concern them.
I understand that this government of the United States under which we
live, is based upon this principle; and I am misunderstood if it is
supposed that I have any war to make upon that principle.
Now, what is Judge Douglas's popular sovereignty? It is, as a principle,
no other than that if one man chooses to make a slave of another man,
neither that other man nor anybody else has a right to object. Applied
in government, as he seeks to apply it, it is this: If, in a new
Territory into which a few people are beginning to enter for the purpose
of making their homes, they choose to either exclude slavery from their
limits or to establish it there, however one or the other may affect the
persons to be enslaved, or the infinitely greater number of persons who
are afterward to inhabit that Territory, or the other members of the
families of communities of which they are but an incipient member, or
the general head of the family of States as parent of all,—however
their action may affect one or the other of these, there is no power or
right to interfere. That is Douglas popular sovereignty applied.
... I cannot but express my gratitude that this true view of this
element of discord among us, as I believe it is, is attracting more and
more attention. I do not believe that Governor Seward uttered that
sentiment because I had done so before, but because he reflected upon
this subject, and saw the truth of it. Nor do I believe, because
Governor Seward or I uttered it, that Mr. Hickman of Pennsylvania, in
different language, since that time, has declared his belief in the
utter antagonism which exists between the principles of liberty and
slavery. You see we are multiplying. Now, while I am speaking of
Hickman, let me say, I know but little about him. I have never seen him,
and know scarcely anything about the man; but I will say this much about
him: of all the anti-Lecompton Democracy that have been brought to my
notice, he alone has the true, genuine ring of the metal.
... Judge Douglas ... proceeds to assume, without proving it, that
slavery is one of those little, unimportant, trivial matters which are
of just about as much consequence as the question would be to me,
whether my neighbour should raise horned cattle or plant tobacco; that
there is no moral question about it, but that it is altogether a matter
of dollars and cents; that when a new Territory is opened for
settlement, the first man who goes into it may plant there a thing
which, like the Canada thistle or some other of those pests of the soil,
cannot be dug out by the millions of men who will come thereafter; that
it is one of those little things that is so trivial in its nature that
it has no effect upon anybody save the few men who first plant upon the
soil; that it is not a thing which in any way affects the family of
communities composing these States, nor any way endangers the general
government. Judge Douglas ignores altogether the very well-known fact
that we have never had a serious menace to our political existence
except it sprang from this thing, which he chooses to regard as only
upon a par with onions and potatoes.
... Did you ever, five years ago, hear of anybody in the world saying
that the negro had no share in the Declaration of National Independence;
that it did not mean negroes at all; and when "all men" were spoken of,
negroes were not included?
... Then I suppose that all now express the belief that the Declaration
of Independence never did mean negroes. I call upon one of them to say
that he said it five years ago. If you think that now, and did not think
it then, the next thing that strikes me is to remark that there has been
achangewrought in you, and a very significant change it is, being no
less than changing the negro, in your estimation, from the rank of a man
to that of a brute....
Is not this change wrought in your minds a very important change? Public
opinion in this country is everything. In a nation like ours this
popular sovereignty and squatter sovereignty have already wrought a
change in the public mind to the extent I have stated....
... Now, if you are opposed to slavery honestly, I ask you to note that
fact (the popular-sovereignty of Judge Douglas), and the like of which
is to follow, to be plastered on, layer after layer, until very soon you
are prepared to deal with the negro everywhere as with the brute. If
public sentiment has not been debauched already to this point, a new
turn of the screw in that direction is all that is wanting; and this is
constantly being done by the teachers of this insidious popular
sovereignty. You need but one or two turns further, until your minds,
now ripening under these teachings, will be ready for all these things,
and you will receive and support or submit to the slave-trade, revived
with all its horrors,—a slave-code enforced in our Territories,—and a
new Dred Scott decision to bring slavery up into the very heart of the
free North.
... I ask attention to the fact that in a pre-eminent degree these
popular sovereigns are at this work: blowing out the moral lights around
us; teaching that the negro is no longer a man, but a brute; that the
Declaration has nothing to do with him; that he ranks with the crocodile
and the reptile; that man with body and soul is a matter of dollars and
cents. I suggest to this portion of the Ohio Republicans, or Democrats,
if there be any present, the serious consideration of this fact, that
there is now going on among you a steady process of debauching public
opinion on this subject. With this, my friends, I bid you adieu.
... I say, then, in the first place to the Kentuckians that I am what
they call, as I understand it, a "Black Republican." I think slavery is
wrong, morally and politically. I desire that it should be no further
spread in these United States, and I should not object if it should
gradually terminate in the whole Union. While I say this for myself, I
say to you, Kentuckians, that I understand you differ radically with me
upon this proposition; that you believe slavery is a good thing; that
slavery is right; that it ought to be extended and perpetuated in this
Union. Now, there being this broad difference between us, I do not
pretend, in addressing myself to you, Kentuckians, to attempt
proselyting you. That would be a vain effort. I do not enter upon it. I
only propose to try to show you that you ought to nominate for the next
presidency, at Charleston, my distinguished friend, Judge Douglas. In
all that, there is no real difference between you and him; I understand
he is as sincerely for you, and more wisely for you than you are for
yourselves. I will try to demonstrate that proposition.
In Kentucky perhaps—in many of the slave States certainly—you are
trying to establish the rightfulness of slavery by reference to the
Bible. You are trying to show that slavery existed in the Bible times by
Divine ordinance. Now, Douglas is wiser than you, for your own benefit,
upon that subject. Douglas knows that whenever you establish that
slavery was right by the Bible, it will occur that that slavery was the
slavery of the white man,—of men without reference to colour,—and he
knows very well that you may entertain that idea in Kentucky as much as
you please, but you will never win any Northern support upon it. He
makes a wiser argument for you. He makes the argument that the slavery
of the black man—the slavery of the man who has a skin of a different
colour from your own—is right. He thereby brings to your support
Northern voters, who could not for a moment be brought by your own
argument of the Bible right of slavery.
... At Memphis he [Judge Douglas] declared that in all contests between
the negro and the white man, he was for the white man, but that in all
questions between the negro and the crocodile, he was for the negro. He
did not make that declaration accidentally ... he made it a great many
times.
The first inference seems to be that if you do not enslave the negro,
you are wronging the white man in some way or other; and that whoever is
opposed to the negro being enslaved is in some way or other against the
white man. Is not that a falsehood? If there was a necessary conflict
between the white man and the negro, I should be for the white man as
much as Judge Douglas; but I say there is no such necessary conflict. I
say there is room enough for us all to be free, and that it not only
does not wrong the white man that the negro should be free, but it
positively wrongs the mass of the white men that the negro should be
enslaved,—that the mass of white men are really injured by the effects
of slave labour in the vicinity of the fields of their own labour....
There is one other thing that I will say to you in this relation. It is
but my opinion; I give it to you without a fee. It is my opinion that it
is for you to take him or be defeated; and that if you do take him you
may be beaten. You will surely be beaten if you do not take him. We, the
Republicans and others forming the opposition of the country, intend "to
stand by our guns," to be patient and firm, and in the long run to beat
you, whether you take him or not. We know that before we fairly beat
you, we have to beat you both together. We know that "you are all of a
feather," and that we have to beat you all together, and we expect to do
it. We don't intend to be very impatient about it. We mean to be as
deliberate and calm about it as it is possible to be, but as firm and
resolved as it is possible for men to be. When we do as we say, beat
you, you perhaps want to know what we will do with you.
I will tell you, so far as I am authorized to speak for the opposition,
what we mean to do with you. We mean to treat you, as near as we
possibly can, as Washington, Jefferson, and Madison treated you. We mean
to leave you alone, and in no way to interfere with your institution; to
abide by all and every compromise of the Constitution, and, in a word,
coming back to the original proposition, to treat you, so far as
degenerate men (if we have degenerated) may, according to the example of
those noble fathers—Washington, Jefferson, and Madison. We mean to
remember that you are as good as we; that there is no difference between
us other than the difference of circumstances. We mean to recognize and
bear in mind always, that you have as good hearts in your bosoms as
other people, or as we claim to have, and to treat you accordingly. We
mean to marry your girls when we have a chance—the white ones, I mean,
and I have the honour to inform you that I once did have a chance in
that way.
I have told you what we mean to do. I want to know, now, when that thing
takes place, what do you mean to do? I often hear it intimated that you
mean to divide the Union whenever a Republican, or anything like it, is
elected President of the United States. [A voice: "That is so."] "That
is so," one of them says; I wonder if he is a Kentuckian? [A voice: "He
is a Douglas man."] Well, then, I want to know what you are going to do
with your half of it. Are you going to split the Ohio down through, and
push your half off a piece? Or are you going to keep it right alongside
of us outrageous fellows? Or are you going to build up a wall some way
between your country and ours, by which that movable property of yours
can't come over here any more, to the danger of your losing it? Do you
think you can better yourselves on that subject by leaving us here
under no obligation whatever to return those specimens of your movable
property that come hither?
You have divided the Union because we would not do right with you, as
you think, upon that subject; when we cease to be under obligation to do
anything for you, how much better off do you think you will be? Will you
make war upon us and kill us all? Why, gentlemen, I think you are as
gallant and as brave men as live; that you can fight as bravely in a
good cause, man for man, as any other people living; that you have shown
yourselves capable of this upon various occasions; but man for man, you
are not better than we are, and there are not so many of you as there
are of us. You will never make much of a hand at whipping us. If we were
fewer in numbers than you, I think that you could whip us; if we were
equal it would likely be a drawn battle; but being inferior in numbers,
you will make nothing by attempting to master us....
Labour is the great source from which nearly all, if not all, human
comforts and necessities are drawn. There is a difference in opinion
about the elements of labour in society. Some men assume that there is a
necessary connection between capital and labour, and that connection
draws within it the whole of the labour of the community. They assume
that nobody works unless capital excites them to work. They begin next
to consider what is the best way. They say there are but two ways,—one
is to hire men and to allure them to labour by their consent; the other
is to buy the men, and drive them to it, and that is slavery. Having
assumed that, they proceed to discuss the question of whether the
labourers themselves are better off in the condition of slaves or of
hired labourers, and they usually decide that they are better off in the
condition of slaves.
In the first place, I say the whole thing is a mistake. That there is a
certain relation between capital and labour, I admit. That it does
exist, and rightfully exist, I think is true. That men who are
industrious and sober and honest in the pursuit of their own interests
should after a while accumulate capital, and after that should be
allowed to enjoy it in peace, and also if they should choose, when they
have accumulated it, to use it to save themselves from actual labour,
and hire other people to labour for them,—is right. In doing so, they
do not wrong the man they employ, for they find men who have not their
own land to work upon, or shops to work in, and who are benefited by
working for others,—hired labourers, receiving their capital for it.
Thus a few men that own capital hire a few others, and these establish
the relation of capital and labour rightfully—a relation of which I
make no complaint. But I insist that that relation, after all, does not
embrace more than one-eighth of the labour of the country.
There are a plenty of men in the slave States that are altogether good
enough for me, to be either President or Vice-President, provided they
will profess their sympathy with our purpose, and will place themselves
on such ground that our men upon principle can vote for them. There are
scores of them—good men in their character for intelligence, for talent
and integrity. If such an one will place himself upon the right ground,
I am for his occupying one place upon the next Republican or opposition
ticket. I will go heartily for him. But unless he does so place himself,
I think it is perfect nonsense to attempt to bring about a union upon
any other basis; that if a union be made, the elements will so scatter
that there can be no success for such a ticket. The good old maxims of
the Bible are applicable, and truly applicable, to human affairs; and in
this, as in other things, we may say that he who is not for us is
against us; he who gathereth not with us, scattereth. I should be glad
to have some of the many good and able and noble men of the South place
themselves where we can confer upon them the high honour of an election
upon one or the other end of our ticket. It would do my soul good to do
that thing. It would enable us to teach them that inasmuch as we select
one of their own number to carry out our principles, we are free from
the charge that we mean more than we say....
I was born February 12, 1809, in Hardin County, Kentucky. My parents
were both born in Virginia, of undistinguished families—second
families, perhaps I should say. My mother, who died in my tenth year,
was of a family of the name of Hanks, some of whom now reside in Adams,
and others in Macon County, Illinois. My paternal grandfather, Abraham
Lincoln, emigrated from Rockingham County, Virginia, to Kentucky about
1781 or 1782, where a year or two later he was killed by the Indians,
not in battle, but by stealth, when he was labouring to open a farm in
the forest. His ancestors, who were Quakers, went to Virginia from Berks
County, Pennsylvania. An effort to identify them with the New England
family of the same name ended in nothing more definite than a similarity
of Christian names in both families, such as Enoch, Levi, Mordecai,
Solomon, Abraham, and the like.
My father, at the death of his father, was but six years of age, and he
grew up literally without education. He removed from Kentucky to what is
now Spencer County, Indiana, in my eighth year. We reached our new home
about the time the State came into the Union. It was a wild region, with
many bears and other wild animals still in the woods. There I grew up.
There were some schools, so called, but no qualification was ever
required of a teacher beyond "readin', writin', and cipherin'" to the
rule of three. If a straggler supposed to understand Latin happened to
sojourn in the neighbourhood, he was looked upon as a wizard. There was
absolutely nothing to excite ambition for education. Of course, when I
came of age I did not know much. Still, somehow, I could read, write,
and cipher to the rule of three, but that was all. I have not been to
school since. The little advance I now have upon this store of education
I have picked up from time to time under the pressure of necessity.
I was raised to farm work, which I continued till I was twenty-two. At
twenty-one I came to Illinois, Macon County. Then I got to New Salem, at
that time in Sangamon, now in Menard County, where I remained a year as
a sort of clerk in a store.
Then came the Black Hawk War; and I was elected a captain of volunteers,
a success which gave me more pleasure than any I have had since. I went
the campaign, was elated, ran for the legislature the same year (1832),
and was beaten—the only time I ever have been beaten by the people. The
next and three succeeding biennial elections I was elected to the
legislature. I was not a candidate afterward. During this legislative
period I had studied law, and removed to Springfield to practise it. In
1846 I was once elected to the lower House of Congress. Was not a
candidate for re-election. From 1849 to 1854, both inclusive, practised
law more assiduously than ever before. Always a Whig in politics; and
generally on the Whig electoral tickets, making active canvasses. I was
losing interest in politics when the repeal of the Missouri Compromise
aroused me again. What I have done since then is pretty well known.
If any personal description of me is thought desirable, it may be said I
am, in height, six feet four inches, nearly; lean in flesh, weighing on
an average one hundred and eighty pounds; dark complexion, with coarse
black hair and gray eyes. No other marks or brands recollected.
... Now, and hear, let me guard a little against being misunderstood. I
do not mean to say we are bound to follow implicitly in whatever our
fathers did. To do so, would be to discard all the lights of current
experience—to reject all progress, all improvement. What I do say is,
that if we would supplant the opinions and policy of our fathers in any
case, we should do so on evidence so conclusive, and argument so clear,
that even their great authority, fairly considered and weighed, cannot
stand; and most surely not in a case whereof we ourselves declare they
understood the question better than we.
If any man at this day sincerely believes that the proper division of
local from Federal authority, or any part of the Constitution, forbids
the Federal Government to control as to slavery in the Federal
Territories, he is right to say so, and to enforce his position by all
truthful evidence and fair argument he can. But he has no right to
mislead others who have less access to history, and less leisure to
study it, into the false belief that "our fathers who framed the
government under which we live" were of the same opinion—thus
substituting falsehood and deception for truthful evidence and fair
argument. If any man at this day sincerely believes "our fathers who
framed the government under which we live" used and applied principles,
in other cases, which ought to have led them to understand that a proper
division of local from Federal authority, or some part of the
Constitution, forbids the Federal Government to control as to slavery in
the Federal Territories, he is right to say so. But he should, at the
same time, have the responsibility of declaring that, in his opinion, he
understands their principles better than they did themselves; and
especially should he not shirk the responsibility by asserting that they
understood the question just as well and even better than we do now.
But enough! Let all who believe that "our fathers who framed the
government under which we live understood this question just as well,
and even better than we do now," speak as they spoke, and act as they
acted upon it. This is all Republicans ask, all Republicans desire, in
relation to slavery. As those fathers marked it, so let it again be
marked, as an evil not to be extended, but to be tolerated and protected
only because of and so far as its actual presence among us makes that
toleration and protection a necessity. Let all the guaranties those
fathers gave it be not grudgingly, but fully and fairly maintained. For
this Republicans contend, and with this, so far as I know or believe,
they will be content.
And now, if they would listen,—as I suppose they will not,—I would
address a few words to the Southern people.
I would say to them: You consider yourselves a reasonable and a just
people; and I consider that in the general qualities of reason and
justice you are not inferior to any other people. Still, when you speak
of us Republicans, you do so only to denounce us as reptiles, or, at the
best, as no better than outlaws. You will grant a hearing to pirates or
murderers, but nothing like it to "Black Republicans." In all your
contentions with one another, each of you deems an unconditional
condemnation of "Black Republicanism" as the first thing to be attended
to. Indeed, such condemnation of us seems to be an indispensable
prerequisite—license, so to speak—among you to be admitted or
permitted to speak at all. Now, can you or not be prevailed upon to
pause and to consider whether this is quite just to us, or even to
yourselves? Bring forward your charges and specifications, and then be
patient long enough to hear us deny or justify.
You say we are sectional. We deny it. That makes an issue; and the
burden of proof is upon you. You produce your proof; and what is it?
Why, that our party has no existence in your section—gets no votes in
your section. The fact is substantially true; but does it prove the
issue? If it does, then, in case we should, without change of principle,
begin to get votes in your section, we should thereby cease to be
sectional. You cannot escape this conclusion; and yet, are you willing
to abide by it? If you are, you will probably soon find that we have
ceased to be sectional, for we shall get votes in your section this very
year. You will then begin to discover, as the truth plainly is, that
your proof does not touch the issue. The fact that we get no votes in
your section is a fact of your making, and not of ours.
And if there be fault in that fact, that fault is primarily yours, and
remains so until you show that we repel you by some wrong principle or
practice. If we do repel you by any wrong principle or practice, the
fault is ours; but this brings you to where you ought to have
started—to a discussion of the right or wrong of our principle. If our
principle, put in practice, would wrong your section for the benefit of
ours, or for any other object, then our principle, and we with it, are
sectional, and are justly opposed and denounced as such. Meet us, then,
on the question of whether our principle, put in practice, would wrong
your section; and so meet us as if it were possible that something may
be said on our side. Do you accept the challenge? No! Then you really
believe that the principle which "our fathers who framed the government
under which we live" thought so clearly right as to adopt it, and
indorse it again and again, upon their official oaths, is in fact so
clearly wrong as to demand your condemnation without a moment's
consideration.
Some of you delight to flaunt in our faces the warning against sectional
parties given by Washington in his Farewell Address. Less than eight
years before Washington gave that warning he had, as President of the
United States, approved and signed an act of Congress enforcing the
prohibition of slavery in the Northwestern Territory, which act embodied
the policy of the government upon that subject up to and at the very
moment he penned that warning; and about one year after he penned it, he
wrote Lafayette that he considered that prohibition a wise measure,
expressing in the same connection his hope that we should at some time
have a confederacy of free States.
Bearing this in mind, and seeing that sectionalism has since arisen upon
this same subject, is that warning a weapon in your hands against us, or
in our hands against you? Could Washington himself speak, would he cast
the blame of that sectionalism upon us, who sustain his policy, or upon
you, who repudiate it? We respect that warning of Washington, and we
commend it to you, together with his example pointing to the right
application of it.
But you say you are conservative,—eminently conservative,—while we
are revolutionary, destructive, or something of the sort.
What is conservatism? Is it not adherence to the old and tried, against
the new and untried? We stick to, contend for, the identical old policy
on the point in controversy which was adopted by "our fathers who framed
the government under which we live"; while you with one accord reject,
and scout, and spit upon that old policy, and insist upon substituting
something new.
True, you disagree among yourselves as to what that substitute shall be.
You are divided on new propositions and plans, but you are unanimous in
rejecting and denouncing the old policy of the fathers. Some of you are
for reviving the foreign slave-trade; some for a Congressional
slave-code for the Territories; some for Congress forbidding the
Territories to prohibit slavery within their limits; some for
maintaining slavery in the Territories through the judiciary; some for
the "gur-reat pur-rinciple" that "if one man would enslave another, no
third man should object," fantastically called "popular sovereignty";
but never a man among you is in favour of Federal prohibition of slavery
in Federal Territories, according to the practice of "our fathers who
framed the government under which we live." Not one of all your various
plans can show a precedent or an advocate in the century within which
our government originated.
Consider, then, whether your claim for conservatism for yourselves, and
your charge of destructiveness against us, are based on the most clear
and stable foundations.
Again, you say we have made the slavery question more prominent than it
formerly was. We deny it. We admit that it is more prominent, but we
deny that we made it so. It was not we, but you, who discarded the old
policy of the fathers. We resisted, and still resist, your innovation;
and thence comes the greater prominence of the question. Would you have
that question reduced to its former proportions? Go back to that old
policy. What has been will be again, under the same conditions. If you
would have the peace of the old times, readopt the precepts and policy
of the old times.
You charge that we stir up insurrections among your slaves. We deny it;
and what is your proof? Harper's Ferry! John Brown! John Brown was no
Republican; and you have failed to implicate a single Republican in his
Harper's Ferry enterprise. If any member of our party is guilty in that
matter, you know it, or you do not know it. If you do know it, you are
inexcusable for not designating the man and proving the fact. If you do
not know it, you are inexcusable for asserting it, and especially for
persisting in the assertion after you have tried and failed to make the
proof. You need not be told that persisting in a charge which one does
not know to be true is simply malicious slander.
Some of you admit that no Republican designedly aided or encouraged the
Harper's Ferry affair, but still insist that our doctrines and
declarations necessarily lead to such results. We do not believe it. We
know we hold no doctrine, and make no declaration, which were not held
to and made by "our fathers who framed the government under which we
live." You never dealt fairly by us in relation to this affair. When it
occurred, some important State elections were near at hand, and you were
in evident glee with the belief that, by charging the blame upon us, you
could get an advantage of us in those elections. The elections came, and
your expectations were not quite fulfilled. Every Republican man knew
that, as to himself at least, your charge was a slander, and he was not
much inclined by it to cast his vote in your favour. Republican
doctrines and declarations are accompanied with a continual protest
against any interference whatever with your slaves, or with you about
your slaves. Surely this does not encourage them to revolt. True, we do,
in common with "our fathers who framed the government under which we
live," declare our belief that slavery is wrong; but the slaves do not
hear us declare even this. For anything we say or do, the slaves would
scarcely know there is a Republican party. I believe they would not, in
fact, generally know it but for your misrepresentations of us in their
hearing. In your political contests among yourselves, each faction
charges the other with sympathy with Black Republicanism; and then, to
give point to the charge, defines Black Republicanism to simply be
insurrection, blood, and thunder among the slaves.
Slave insurrections are no more common now than they were before the
Republican party was organized. What induced the Southampton
insurrection, twenty-eight years ago, in which at least three times as
many lives were lost as at Harper's Ferry? You can scarcely stretch your
very elastic fancy to the conclusion that Southampton was "got up by
Black Republicanism." In the present state of things in the United
States, I do not think a general, or even a very extensive, slave
insurrection is possible. The indispensable concert of action cannot be
attained. The slaves have no means of rapid communication; nor can
incendiary freemen, black or white, supply it. The explosive materials
are everywhere in parcels; but there neither are, nor can be supplied,
the indispensable connecting trains.
Much is said by Southern people about the affection of slaves for their
masters and mistresses; and a part of it, at least, is true. A plot for
an uprising could scarcely be devised and communicated to twenty
individuals before some one of them, to save the life of a favourite
master or mistress, would divulge it. This is the rule; and the slave
revolution in Haiti was not an exception to it, but a case occurring
under peculiar circumstances. The Gunpowder Plot of British history,
though not connected with slaves, was more in point. In that case, only
about twenty were admitted to the secret; and yet one of them, in his
anxiety to save a friend, betrayed the plot to that friend, and, by
consequence, averted the calamity. Occasional poisonings from the
kitchen, and open or stealthy assassinations in the field, and local
revolts extending to a score or so, will continue to occur as the
natural results of slavery; but no general insurrection of slaves, as I
think, can happen in this country for a long time. Whoever much fears,
or much hopes, for such an event, will be alike disappointed.
In the language of Mr. Jefferson, uttered many years ago, "It is still
in our power to direct the process of emancipation and deportation
peaceably, and in such slow degrees as that the evil will wear off
insensibly, and their places be,pari passu, filled up by free white
labourers. If, on the contrary, it is left to force itself on, human
nature must shudder at the prospect held up."
Mr. Jefferson did not mean to say, nor do I, that the power of
emancipation is in the Federal Government. He spoke of Virginia; and, as
to the power of emancipation, I speak of the slaveholding States only.
The Federal Government, however, as we insist, has the power of
restraining the extension of the institution—the power to insure that a
slave insurrection shall never occur on any American soil which is now
free from slavery.
John Brown's effort was peculiar. It was not a slave insurrection. It
was an attempt by white men to get up a revolt among slaves, in which
the slaves refused to participate. In fact, it was so absurd that the
slaves, with all their ignorance, saw plainly enough it could not
succeed. That affair, in its philosophy, corresponds with the many
attempts, related in history, at the assassination of kings and
emperors. An enthusiast broods over the oppression of a people till he
fancies himself commissioned by Heaven to liberate them. He ventures the
attempt, which ends in little else than his own execution. Orsini's
attempt on Louis Napoleon, and John Brown's attempt at Harper's Ferry,
were, in their philosophy, precisely the same. The eagerness to cast
blame on Old England in the one case, and on New England in the other,
does not disprove the sameness of the two things.
And how much would it avail you if you could, by the use of John Brown,
Helper's book, and the like, break up the Republican organization? Human
action can be modified to some extent, but human nature cannot be
changed. There is a judgment and a feeling against slavery in this
nation, which cast at least a million and a half of votes. You cannot
destroy that judgment and feeling—that sentiment—by breaking up the
political organization which rallies around it. You can scarcely scatter
and disperse an army which has been formed into order in the face of
your heaviest fire; but if you could, how much would you gain by forcing
the sentiment which created it out of the peaceful channel of the
ballot-box into some other channel? What would that other channel
probably be? Would the number of John Browns be lessened or enlarged by
the operation?
But you will break up the Union rather than submit to a denial of your
constitutional rights.
That has a somewhat reckless sound; but it would be palliated, if not
fully justified, were we proposing, by the mere force of numbers, to
deprive you of some right plainly written down in the Constitution. But
we are proposing no such thing.
When you make these declarations you have a specific and well-understood
allusion to an assumed constitutional right of yours to take slaves into
the Federal Territories, and to hold them there as property. But no such
right is specifically written in the Constitution. That instrument is
literally silent about any such right. We, on the contrary, deny that
such a right has any existence in the Constitution, even by implication.
Your purpose, then, plainly stated, is that you will destroy the
government, unless you be allowed to construe and force the Constitution
as you please, on all points in dispute between you and us. You will
rule or ruin in all events.
This, plainly stated, is your language. Perhaps you will say the Supreme
Court has decided the disputed constitutional question in your favour.
Not quite so. But waiving the lawyer's distinction between dictum and
decision, the court has decided the question for you in a sort of way.
The court has substantially said, it is your constitutional right to
take slaves into the Federal Territories, and to hold them there as
property. When I say the decision was made in a sort of way, I mean it
was made in a divided court, by a bare majority of the judges, and they
not quite agreeing with one another in the reasons for making it; that
it is so made as that its avowed supporters disagree with one another
about its meaning, and that it was mainly based upon a mistaken
statement of fact—the statement in the opinion that "the right of
property in a slave is distinctly and expressly affirmed in the
Constitution."
An inspection of the Constitution will show that the right of property
in a slave is not "distinctly and expressly affirmed" in it. Bear in
mind, the judges do not pledge their judicial opinion that such right is
impliedly affirmed in the Constitution; but they pledge their veracity
that it is "distinctly and expressly" affirmed there—"distinctly," that
is, not mingled with anything else; "expressly," that is, in words
meaning just that, without the aid of any inference, and susceptible of
no other meaning.
If they had only pledged their judicial opinion that such right is
affirmed in the instrument by implication, it would be open to others to
show that neither the word "slave" nor "slavery" is to be found in the
Constitution, nor the word "property," even, in any connection with
language alluding to the things slave or slavery; and that wherever in
that instrument the slave is alluded to, he is called a "person"; and
wherever his master's legal right in relation to him is alluded to, it
is spoken of as "service or labour which may be due"—as a debt payable
in service or labour. Also it would be open to show, by contemporaneous
history, that this mode of alluding to slaves and slavery, instead of
speaking of them, was employed on purpose to exclude from the
Constitution the idea that there could be property in man.
When this obvious mistake of the judges shall be brought to their
notice, is it not reasonable to expect that they will withdraw the
mistaken statement, and reconsider the conclusion based upon it?
And then it is to be remembered that "our fathers who framed
the government under which we live"—the men who made the
Constitution—decided this same constitutional question in our favour
long ago; decided it without division among themselves when making the
decision; without division among themselves about the meaning of it
after it was made, and, so far as any evidence is left, without basing
it upon any mistaken statement of facts.
Under all these circumstances, do you really feel yourselves justified
to break up this government unless such a court decision as yours is
shall be at once submitted to as a conclusive and final rule of
political action? But you will not abide the election of a Republican
President! In that supposed event, you say, you will destroy the Union;
and then, you say, the great crime of having destroyed it will be upon
us! That is cool. A highwayman holds a pistol to my ear, and mutters
through his teeth, "Stand and deliver, or I shall kill you, and then you
will be a murderer!"
To be sure, what the robber demanded of me—my money—was my own; and I
had a clear right to keep it; but it was no more my own than my vote is
my own; and the threat of death to me, to extort my money, and the
threat of destruction to the Union, to extort my vote, can scarcely be
distinguished in principle.
Wrong as we think slavery is, we can yet afford to let it alone where it
is, because that much is due to the necessity arising from its actual
presence in the nation; but can we, while our votes will prevent it,
allow it to spread into the national Territories, and to overrun us here
in these free States? If our sense of duty forbids this, then let us
stand by our duty fearlessly and effectively. Let us be diverted by none
of those sophistical contrivances wherewith we are so industriously
plied and belaboured,—contrivances such as groping for some middle
ground between the right and the wrong, vain as the search for a man who
should be neither a living man nor a dead man; such as a policy of
"don't care," on a question about which all true men do care; such as
Union appeals beseeching true Union men to yield to disunionists,
reversing the Divine rule, and calling not the sinners, but the
righteous to repentance; such as invocations to Washington, imploring
men to unsay what Washington said, and undo what Washington did.
Neither let us be slandered from our duty by false accusations against
us, nor frightened from it by menaces of destruction to the government,
nor of dungeons to ourselves. Let us have faith that right makes might,
and in that faith let us to the end dare to do our duty as we understand
it.
My Friends, No one not in my situation can appreciate my feeling of
sadness at this parting. To this place, and the kindness of these
people, I owe everything. Here I have lived a quarter of a century, and
have passed from a young to an old man. Here my children have been born,
and one is buried. I now leave, not knowing when or whether ever I may
return, with a task before me greater than that which rested upon
Washington. Without the assistance of that Divine Being who ever
attended him I cannot succeed. With that assistance I cannot fail.
Trusting in Him, who can go with me and remain with you, and be
everywhere for good, let us confidently hope that all will yet be well.
To His care commending you, as I hope in your prayers you will commend
me, I bid you an affectionate farewell.
I accept the nomination tendered me by the Convention over which you
presided, and of which I am formally apprized in the letter of yourself
and others, acting as a committee of the Convention for that purpose.
The declaration of principles and sentiments which accompanies your
letter, meets my approval; and it shall be my care not to violate or
disregard it in any part.
Imploring the assistance of Divine Providence, and with due regard to
the views and feelings of all who were represented in the Convention; to
the rights of all the States and Territories and people of the nation;
to the inviolability of the Constitution; and the perpetual union,
harmony, and prosperity of all,—I am most happy to co-operate for the
practical success of the principles declared by the Convention.
Your obliged friend and fellow-citizen,A. LINCOLN.
My dear little Miss, Your very agreeable letter of the 15th is received.
I regret the necessity of saying I have no daughter. I have three
sons—one seventeen, one nine, and one seven years of age. They, with
their mother, constitute my whole family. As to the whiskers, having
never worn any, do you not think people would call it a piece of silly
affectation if I were to begin it now?
Fellow-citizens of the State of Indiana, I am here to thank you much for
this magnificent welcome, and still more for the generous support given
by your State to that political cause which I think is the true and just
cause of the whole country and the whole world.
Solomon says "there is a time to keep silence," and when men wrangle by
the mouth with no certainty that they mean the same thing while using
the same word, it perhaps were as well if they would keep silence.
The words "coercion" and "invasion" are much used in these days, and
often with some temper and hot blood. Let us make sure, if we can, that
we do not misunderstand the meaning of those who use them. Let us get
exact definitions of these words, not from dictionaries, but from the
men themselves, who certainly deprecate the things they would represent
by the use of words. What then iscoercion? what isinvasion? Would
the marching of an army into South Carolina, without the consent of her
people and with hostile intent towards them, be invasion? I certainly
think it would; and it would be coercion also, if the South Carolinians
were forced to submit. But if the United States should merely retake and
hold its own forts and other property, and collect the duties on foreign
importations, or even withhold the mails from places where they were
habitually violated, would any or all these things be invasion or
coercion? Do our professed lovers of the Union, but who spitefully
resolve that they will resist coercion and invasion, understand that
such things as these, on the part of the United States, would be
coercion or invasion of a State? If so, their idea of means to preserve
the object of their affection would seem exceedingly thin and airy. If
sick, the little pills of the homoeopathist would be much too large for
them to swallow. In their view, the Union as a family relation would
seem to be no regular marriage, but a sort of free-love arrangement to
be maintained only onpassional attraction.
By the way, in what consists the special sacredness of a State? I speak
not of the position assigned to a State in the Union by the
Constitution; for that, by the bond, we all recognize. That position,
however, a State cannot carry out of the Union with it. I speak of that
assumed primary right of a State to rule all which islessthan
itself, and ruin all which is larger than itself. If a State and a
county in a given case should be equal in extent of territory, and equal
in number of inhabitants, in what, as a matter of principle, is the
State better than the county? Would an exchange ofnamesbe an
exchange ofrightsupon principle? On what rightful principle may a
State, being not more than one-fiftieth part of the nation in soil and
population, break up the nation, and then coerce a proportionally larger
subdivision of itself in the most arbitrary way? What mysterious right
to play tyrant is conferred on a district of country, with its people,
by merely calling it a State?
Fellow-citizens, I am not asserting anything: I am merely asking
questions for you to consider. And now allow me to bid you farewell.
It is true, as has been said by the president of the Senate, that a very
great responsibility rests upon me in the position to which the votes of
the American people have called me. I am deeply sensible of that weighty
responsibility. I cannot but know, what you all know, that without a
name, perhaps without a reason why I should have a name, there has
fallen upon me a task such as did not rest even upon the Father of his
Country; and so feeling, I cannot but turn and look for that support
without which it will be impossible for me to perform that great task. I
turn then, and look to the great American people, and to that God who
has never forsaken them. Allusion has been made to the interest felt in
relation to the policy of the new Administration. In this I have
received from some a degree of credit for having kept silence, and from
others, some deprecation. I still think I was right.
In the varying and repeatedly shifting scenes of the present, and
without a precedent which could enable me to judge by the past, it has
seemed fitting that before speaking upon the difficulties of the
country, I should have gained a view of the whole field, being at
liberty to modify and change the course of policy as future events may
make a change necessary.
I have not maintained silence from any want of real anxiety. It is a
good thing that there is no more than anxiety, for there is nothing
going wrong. It is a consoling circumstance that when we look out, there
is nothing that really hurts anybody. We entertain different views upon
political questions, but nobody is suffering anything. This is a most
consoling circumstance, and from it we may conclude that all we want is
time, patience, and a reliance on that God who has never forsaken this
people.
... The condition of the country is an extraordinary one, and fills the
mind of every patriot with anxiety. It is my intention to give this
subject all the consideration I possibly can, before specially deciding
in regard to it, so that when I do speak, it may be as nearly right as
possible. When I do speak, I hope I may say nothing in opposition to the
spirit of the Constitution, contrary to the integrity of the Union, or
which will prove inimical to the liberties of the people or to the peace
of the whole country. And furthermore, when the time arrives for me to
speak on this great subject, I hope I may say nothing to disappoint the
people generally throughout the country, especially if the expectation
has been based upon anything which I have heretofore said.
... If the great American people only keep their temper on both sides of
the line, the troubles will come to an end, and the question which now
distracts the country will be settled, just as surely as all other
difficulties of a like character which have originated in this
government have been adjusted. Let the people on both sides keep their
self-possession, and just as other clouds have cleared away in due time,
so will this great nation continue to prosper as heretofore.
... It is often said that the tariff is the specialty of Pennsylvania.
Assuming that direct taxation is not to be adopted, the tariff question
must be as durable as the government itself. It is a question of
national house-keeping. It is to the government what replenishing the
meal-tub is to the family. Ever-varying circumstances will require
frequent modifications as to the amount needed and the sources of
supply. So far there is little difference of opinion among the people.
It is only whether, and how far, duties on imports shall be adjusted to
favour home productions. In the home market that controversy begins. One
party insists that too much protection oppresses one class for the
advantage of another; while the other party argues that, with all its
incidents, in the long run all classes are benefited. In the Chicago
platform there is a plank upon this subject, which should be a general
law to the incoming Administration. We should do neither more nor less
than we gave the people reason to believe we would when they gave us
their votes. That plank is as I now read:
"That while providing revenue for the support of the general
     government by duties upon imports, sound policy requires such an
     adjustment of these imposts as will encourage the development of
     the industrial interest of the whole country; and we commend that
     policy of national exchanges which secures to working-men liberal
     wages, to agriculture remunerating prices, to mechanics and
     manufacturers adequate reward for their skill, labour, and
     enterprise, and to the nation commercial prosperity and
     independence."
... My political education strongly inclines me against a very free use
of any of the means by the Executive to control the legislation of the
country. As a rule, I think it better that Congress should originate as
well as perfect its measures without external bias. I therefore would
rather recommend to every gentleman who knows he is to be a member of
the next Congress, to take an enlarged view, and post himself
thoroughly, so as to contribute his part to such an adjustment of the
tariff as shall provide a sufficient revenue, and in its other bearings,
so far as possible, be just and equal to all sections of the country and
classes of the people.
... I cannot but remember the place that New Jersey holds in our early
history. In the early Revolutionary struggle few of the States among the
old thirteen had more of the battle-fields of the country within their
limits than old New Jersey. May I be pardoned if, upon this occasion, I
mention that away back in my childhood, the earliest days of my being
able to read, I got hold of a small book, such a one as few of the
younger members have ever seen,—"Weems's Life of Washington." I
remember all the accounts there given of the battle-fields and struggles
for the liberties of the country, and none fixed themselves upon my
imagination so deeply as the struggle here at Trenton, New Jersey. The
crossing of the river, the contest with the Hessians, the great
hardships endured at that time,—all fixed themselves upon my memory
more than any single Revolutionary event; and you all know, for you have
all been boys, how those early impressions last longer than any others.
I recollect thinking then, boy even though I was, that there must have
been something more than common that these men struggled for. I am
exceedingly anxious that that thing—that something even more than
national independence; that something that held out a great promise to
all the people of the world for all time to come,—I am exceedingly
anxious that this Union, the Constitution, and the liberties of the
people shall be perpetuated in accordance with the original idea for
which the struggle was made, and I shall be most happy indeed if I shall
be an humble instrument in the hands of the Almighty, and of this, His
most chosen people, for perpetuating the object of that great struggle.
I am filled with deep emotion at finding myself standing in this place,
where were collected together the wisdom, the patriotism, the devotion
to principle, from which sprang the institutions under which we live.
You have kindly suggested to me that in my hands is the task of
restoring peace to our distracted country. I can say in return, sir,
that all the political sentiments I entertain have been drawn, so far as
I have been able to draw them, from the sentiments which originated in
and were given to the world from this hall. I have never had a feeling,
politically, that did not spring from the sentiments embodied in the
Declaration of Independence.
I have often pondered over the dangers which were incurred by the men
who assembled here and framed and adopted that Declaration. I have
pondered over the toils that were endured by the officers and soldiers
of the army who achieved that independence. I have often inquired of
myself what great principle or idea it was that kept this Confederacy so
long together. It was not the mere matter of separation of the colonies
from the motherland, but that sentiment in the Declaration of
Independence which gave liberty not alone to the people of this country,
but hope to all the world, for all future time. It was that which gave
promise that in due time the weights would be lifted from the shoulders
of all men, and that all should have an equal chance. This is the
sentiment embodied in the Declaration of Independence.
Now, my friends, can this country be saved on that basis? If it can, I
will consider myself one of the happiest men in the world if I can help
to save it. If it cannot be saved upon that principle, it will be truly
awful. But if this country cannot be saved without giving up that
principle, I was about to say I would rather be assassinated on this
spot than surrender it.
Now, in my view of the present aspect of affairs, there is no need of
bloodshed and war. There is no necessity for it. I am not in favour of
such a course; and I may say in advance that there will be no bloodshed
unless it is forced upon the government. The government will not use
force unless force is used against it.
My friends, this is wholly an unprepared speech. I did not expect to be
called on to say a word when I came here. I supposed I was merely to do
something toward raising a flag. I may, therefore, have said something
indiscreet. But I have said nothing but what I am willing to live by,
and, if it be the pleasure of Almighty God, to die by.
Mr. Mayor, I thank you, and through you the municipal authorities of
this city who accompany you, for this welcome. And as it is the first
time in my life, since the present phase of politics has presented
itself in this country, that I have said anything publicly within a
region of country where the institution of slavery exists, I will take
this occasion to say that I think very much of the ill-feeling that has
existed and still exists between the people in the section from which I
came and the people here, is dependent upon a misunderstanding of one
another. I therefore avail myself of this opportunity to assure you, Mr.
Mayor, and all the gentlemen present, that I have not now, and never
have had, any other than as kindly feelings towards you as to the people
of my own section. I have not now and never have had any disposition to
treat you in any respect otherwise than as my own neighbours. I have not
now any purpose to withhold from you any of the benefits of the
Constitution under any circumstances, that I would not feel myself
constrained to withhold from my own neighbours; and I hope, in a word,
that when we become better acquainted,—and I say it with great
confidence,—we shall like each other the more. I thank you for the
kindness of this reception.
Fellow-citizens of the United States, In compliance with a custom as old
as the government itself, I appear before you to address you briefly,
and to take in your presence the oath prescribed by the Constitution of
the United States to be taken by the President "before he enters on the
execution of his office."
I do not consider it necessary at present for me to discuss those
matters of administration about which there is no special anxiety or
excitement.
Apprehension seems to exist among the people of the Southern States that
by the accession of a Republican administration their property and their
peace and personal security are to be endangered. There has never been
any reasonable cause for such apprehension. Indeed, the most ample
evidence to the contrary has all the while existed and been open to
their inspection. It is found in nearly all the published speeches of
him who now addresses you. I do but quote from one of those speeches
when I declare that "I have no purpose, directly or indirectly, to
interfere with the institution of slavery in the States where it exists.
I believe I have no lawful right to do so, and I have no inclination to
do so." Those who nominated and elected me did so with full knowledge
that I had made this and many similar declarations, and had never
recanted them. And, more than this, they placed in the platform for my
acceptance, and as a law to themselves and to me, the clear and emphatic
resolution which I now read:—
"Resolved, That the maintenance inviolate of the rights of the
     States, and especially the right of each State to order and control
     its own domestic institutions according to its own judgment
     exclusively, is essential to that balance of power on which the
     perfection and endurance of our political fabric depend, and we
     denounce the lawless invasion by armed force of the soil of any
     State or Territory, no matter under what pretext, as among the
     gravest of crimes."
I now reiterate these sentiments; and, in doing so, I only press upon
the public attention the most conclusive evidence of which the case is
susceptible, that the property, peace, and security of no section are to
be in any wise endangered by the now incoming administration. I add,
too, that all the protection which, consistently with the Constitution
and the laws, can be given, will be cheerfully given to all the States
when lawfully demanded, for whatever cause—as cheerfully to one section
as to another.
There is much controversy about the delivering up of fugitives from
service or labour. The clause I now read is as plainly written in the
Constitution as any other of its provisions:—
"No person held to service or labour in one State, under the laws
     thereof, escaping into another, shall in consequence of any law or
     regulation therein be discharged from such service or labour, but
     shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or
     labour may be due."
It is scarcely questioned that this provision was intended by those who
made it for the reclaiming of what we call fugitive slaves; and the
intention of the lawgiver is the law. All members of Congress swear
their support to the whole Constitution—to this provision as much as to
any other. To the proposition, then, that slaves whose cases come within
the terms of this clause "shall be delivered up," their oaths are
unanimous. Now, if they would make the effort in good temper, could they
not with nearly equal unanimity frame and pass a law by means of which
to keep good that unanimous oath?
There is some difference of opinion whether this clause should be
enforced by national or by State authority; but surely that difference
is not a very material one. If the slave is to be surrendered, it can be
of but little consequence to him or to others by which authority it is
done. And should any one in any case be content that his oath shall go
unkept on a merely unsubstantial controversy as to how it shall be
kept?
Again, in any law upon this subject, ought not all the safeguards of
liberty known in civilized and humane jurisprudence to be introduced, so
that a free man be not, in any case, surrendered as a slave? And might
it not be well at the same time to provide by law for the enforcement of
that clause in the Constitution which guarantees that "the citizen of
each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of
citizens in the several States"?
I take the official oath to-day with no mental reservations, and with no
purpose to construe the Constitution or laws by any hypercritical rules.
And while I do not choose now to specify particular acts of Congress as
proper to be enforced, I do suggest that it will be much safer for all,
both in official and private stations, to conform to and abide by all
those acts which stand unrepealed, than to violate any of them, trusting
to find impunity in having them held to be unconstitutional.
It is seventy-two years since the first inauguration of a President
under our National Constitution. During that period fifteen different
and greatly distinguished citizens have, in succession, administered the
executive branch of the government They have conducted it through many
perils, and generally with great success. Yet, with all this scope of
precedent, I now enter upon the same task for the brief constitutional
term of four years under great and peculiar difficulty. A disruption of
the Federal Union, heretofore only menaced, is now formidably attempted.
I hold that, in contemplation of universal law and of the Constitution,
the Union of these States is perpetual. Perpetuity is implied, if not
expressed, in the fundamental law of all national governments. It is
safe to assert that no government proper ever had a provision in its
organic law for its own termination. Continue to execute all the express
provisions of our National Constitution, and the Union will endure for
ever—it being impossible to destroy it except by some action not
provided for in the instrument itself.
Again, if the United States be not a government proper, but an
association of States in the nature of contract merely, can it, as a
contract, be peaceably unmade by less than all the parties who made it?
One party to a contract may violate it—break it, so to speak; but does
it not require all to lawfully rescind it?
Descending from these general principles, we find the proposition that
in legal contemplation the Union is perpetual confirmed by the history
of the Union itself. The Union is much older than the Constitution. It
was formed, in fact, by the Articles of Association in 1774. It was
matured and continued by the Declaration of Independence in 1776. It was
further matured, and the faith of all the then thirteen States expressly
plighted and engaged that it should be perpetual, by the Articles of
Confederation in 1778. And, finally, in 1787 one of the declared objects
for ordaining and establishing the Constitution was "to form a more
perfect Union."
But if the destruction of the Union by one or by a part only of the
States be lawfully possible, the Union is less perfect than before the
Constitution, having lost the vital element of perpetuity.
It follows from these views that no State upon its own mere motion can
lawfully get out of the Union; that resolves and ordinances to that
effect are legally void; and that acts of violence, within any State or
States, against the authority of the United States, are insurrectionary
or revolutionary, according to circumstances.
I therefore consider that, in view of the Constitution and the laws, the
Union is unbroken; and to the extent of my ability I shall take care, as
the Constitution itself expressly enjoins upon me, that the laws of the
Union be faithfully executed in all the States. Doing this I deem to be
only a simple duty on my part; and I shall perform it so far as
practicable, unless my rightful masters, the American people, shall
withhold the requisite means, or in some authoritative manner direct the
contrary. I trust this will not be regarded as a menace, but only as the
declared purpose of the Union that it will constitutionally defend and
maintain itself.
In doing this there needs to be no bloodshed or violence; and there
shall be none, unless it be forced upon the national authority. The
power confided to me will be used to hold, occupy, and possess the
property and places belonging to the government, and to collect the
duties and imposts; but beyond what may be necessary for these objects,
there will be no invasion, no using of force against or among the people
anywhere. Where hostility to the United States, in any interior
locality, shall be so great and universal as to prevent competent
resident citizens from holding the Federal offices, there will be no
attempt to force obnoxious strangers among the people for that object.
While the strict legal right may exist in the government to enforce the
exercise of these offices, the attempt to do so would be so irritating,
and so nearly impracticable withal, that I deem it better to forego for
the time the uses of such offices.
The mails, unless repelled, will continue to be furnished in all parts
of the Union. So far as possible, the people everywhere shall have that
sense of perfect security which is most favourable to calm thought and
reflection. The course here indicated will be followed unless current
events and experience shall show a modification or change to be proper,
and in every case and exigency my best discretion will be exercised
according to circumstances actually existing, and with a view and a hope
of a peaceful solution of the national troubles and the restoration of
fraternal sympathies and affections.
That there are persons in one section or another who seek to destroy the
Union at all events, and are glad of any pretext to do it, I will
neither affirm nor deny; but if there be such, I need address no word to
them. To those, however, who really love the Union may I not speak?
Before entering upon so grave a matter as the destruction of our
national fabric, with all its benefits, its memories, and its hopes,
would it not be wise to ascertain precisely why we do it? Will you
hazard so desperate a step while there is any possibility that any
portion of the ills you fly from have no real existence? Will you,
while the certain ills you fly to are greater than all the real ones you
fly from—will you risk the commission of so fearful a mistake?
All profess to be content in the Union if all constitutional rights can
be maintained. Is it true, then, that any right, plainly written in the
Constitution, has been denied? I think not. Happily the human mind is so
constituted that no party can reach to the audacity of doing this.
Think, if you can, of a single instance in which a plainly written
provision of the Constitution has ever been denied. If by the mere force
of numbers a majority should deprive a minority of any clearly written
constitutional right, it might, in a moral point of view, justify
revolution—certainly would if such a right were a vital one. But such
is not our case. All the vital rights of minorities and of individuals
are so plainly assured to them by affirmations and negations, guaranties
and prohibitions, in the Constitution, that controversies never arise
concerning them. But no organic law can ever be framed with a provision
specifically applicable to every question which may occur in practical
administration. No foresight can anticipate, nor any document of
reasonable length contain, express provisions for all possible
questions. Shall fugitives from labour be surrendered by national or by
State authority? The Constitution does not expressly say.MayCongress
prohibit slavery in the Territories? The Constitution does not expressly
say.MustCongress protect slavery in the Territories? The
Constitution does not expressly say.
From questions of this class spring all our constitutional
controversies, and we divide upon them into majorities and minorities.
If the minority will not acquiesce, the majority must, or the government
must cease. There is no other alternative; for continuing the government
is acquiescence on one side or the other.
If a minority in such case will secede rather than acquiesce, they make
a precedent which in turn will divide and ruin them; for a minority of
their own will secede from them whenever a majority refuses to be
controlled by such minority. For instance, why may not any portion of a
new confederacy a year or two hence arbitrarily secede again, precisely
as portions of the present Union now claim to secede from it? All who
cherish disunion sentiments are now being educated to the exact temper
of doing this.
Is there such perfect identity of interests among the States to compose
a new Union, as to produce harmony only, and prevent renewed secession?
Plainly, the central idea of secession is the essence of anarchy. A
majority held in restraint by constitutional checks and limitations, and
always changing easily with deliberate changes of popular opinions and
sentiments, is the only true sovereign of a free people. Whoever rejects
it does, of necessity, fly to anarchy or to despotism. Unanimity is
impossible; the rule of a minority, as a permanent arrangement, is
wholly inadmissible; so that, rejecting the majority principle, anarchy
or despotism in some form is all that is left.
I do not forget the position, assumed by some, that constitutional
questions are to be decided by the Supreme Court; nor do I deny that
such decisions must be binding, in any case, upon the parties to a suit,
as to the object of that suit, while they are also entitled to very high
respect and consideration in all parallel cases by all other departments
of the government. And while it is obviously possible that such decision
may be erroneous in any given case, still the evil effect following it,
being limited to that particular case, with the chance that it may be
overruled and never become a precedent for other cases, can better be
borne than could the evils of a different practice. At the same time,
the candid citizen must confess that if the policy of the government,
upon vital questions affecting the whole people, is to be irrevocably
fixed by decisions of the Supreme Court, the instant they are made, in
ordinary litigation between parties in personal actions, the people will
have ceased to be their own rulers, having to that extent practically
resigned their government into the hands of that eminent tribunal. Nor
is there in this view any assault upon the court or the judges. It is a
duty from which they may not shrink to decide cases properly brought
before them, and it is no fault of theirs if others seek to turn their
decisions to political purposes.
One section of our country believes slavery is right, and ought to be
extended, while the other believes it is wrong, and ought not to be
extended. This is the only substantial dispute. The fugitive-slave
clause of the Constitution, and the law for the suppression of the
foreign slave-trade, are each as well enforced, perhaps, as any law can
ever be in a community where the moral sense of the people imperfectly
supports the law itself. The great body of the people abide by the dry
legal obligation in both cases, and a few break over in each. This, I
think, cannot be perfectly cured; and it would be worse in both cases
after the separation of the sections than before. The foreign
slave-trade, now imperfectly suppressed, would be ultimately revived,
without restriction, in one section, while fugitive slaves, now only
partially surrendered, would not be surrendered at all by the other.
Physically speaking, we cannot separate. We cannot remove our respective
sections from each other, nor build an impassable wall between them. A
husband and wife may be divorced, and go out of the presence and beyond
the reach of each other; but the different parts of our country cannot
do this. They cannot but remain face to face, and intercourse, either
amicable or hostile, must continue between them. Is it possible, then,
to make that intercourse more advantageous or more satisfactory after
separation than before? Can aliens make treaties easier than friends can
make laws? Can treaties be more faithfully enforced between aliens than
laws can among friends? Suppose you go to war, you cannot fight always;
and when, after much loss on both sides, and no gain on either, you
cease fighting, the identical old questions as to terms of intercourse
are again upon you.
This country, with its institutions, belongs to the people who inhabit
it. Whenever they shall grow weary of the existing government, they can
exercise their constitutional right of amending it, or their
revolutionary right to dismember or overthrow it. I cannot be ignorant
of the fact that many worthy and patriotic citizens are desirous of
having the National Constitution amended. While I make no recommendation
of amendments, I fully recognize the rightful authority of the people
over the whole subject, to be exercised in either of the modes
prescribed in the instrument itself; and I should, under existing
circumstances, favour rather than oppose a fair opportunity being
afforded the people to act upon it. I will venture to add that to me the
convention mode seems preferable, in that it allows amendments to
originate with the people themselves, instead of only permitting them to
take or reject propositions originated by others not especially chosen
for the purpose, and which might not be precisely such as they would
wish to either accept or refuse. I understand a proposed amendment to
the Constitution—which amendment, however, I have not seen—has passed
Congress, to the effect that the Federal Government shall never
interfere with the domestic institutions of the States, including that
of persons held to service. To avoid misconstruction of what I have
said, I depart from my purpose not to speak of particular amendments so
far as to say that, holding such a provision to now be implied
constitutional law, I have no objection to its being made express and
irrevocable.
The chief magistrate derives all his authority from the people, and they
have conferred none upon him to fix terms for the separation of the
States. The people themselves can do this also if they choose; but the
Executive, as such, has nothing to do with it. His duty is to administer
the present government, as it came to his hands, and to transmit it,
unimpaired by him, to his successor.
Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of
the people? Is there any better or equal hope in the world? In our
present differences, is either party without faith of being in the
right? If the Almighty Ruler of Nations, with his eternal truth and
justice, be on your side of the North, or on yours of the South, that
truth and that justice will surely prevail by the judgment of this great
tribunal of the American people.
By the frame of the government under which we live, this same people
have wisely given their public servants but little power for mischief;
and have, with equal wisdom, provided for the return of that little to
their own hands at very short intervals. While the people retain their
virtue and vigilance, no administration, by any extreme of wickedness or
folly, can very seriously injure the government in the short space of
four years.
My countrymen, one and all, think calmly and well upon this whole
subject. Nothing valuable can be lost by taking time. If there be an
object to hurry any of you in hot haste to a step which you would never
take deliberately, that object will be frustrated by taking time; but no
good object can be frustrated by it. Such of you as are now dissatisfied
still have the old Constitution unimpaired, and, on the sensitive point,
the laws of your own framing under it; while the new administration will
have no immediate power, if it would, to change either. If it were
admitted that you who are dissatisfied hold the right side in the
dispute, there still is no single good reason for precipitate action.
Intelligence, patriotism, Christianity, and a firm reliance on Him who
has never yet forsaken this favoured land, are still competent to adjust
in the best way all our present difficulty.
In your hands, my dissatisfied fellow-countrymen, and not in mine, is
the momentous issue of civil war. The government will not assail you.
You can have no conflict without being yourselves the aggressors. You
have no oath registered in heaven to destroy the government, while I
shall have the most solemn one to "preserve, protect, and defend it."
I am loath to close. We are not enemies, but friends. We must not be
enemies. Though passion may have strained, it must not break our bonds
of affection. The mystic chords of memory, stretching from every
battle-field and patriot grave to every living heart and hearthstone all
over this broad land, will yet swell the chorus of the Union when again
touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature.
Ladies and Gentlemen, I have no speech to make to you, and no time to
speak in. I appear before you that I may see you, and that you may see
me; and I am willing to admit, that, so far as the ladies are concerned,
I have the best of the bargain, though I wish it to be understood that I
do not make the same acknowledgment concerning the men.
... It is thus seen that the assault upon and reduction of Fort Sumter
was in no sense a matter of self-defence on the part of the assailants.
They well knew that the garrison in the fort could by no possibility
commit aggression upon them. They knew—they were expressly
notified—that the giving of bread to the few brave and hungry men of
the garrison was all which would on that occasion be attempted, unless
themselves, by resisting so much, should provoke more. They knew that
this government desired to keep the garrison in the fort, not to assail
them, but merely to maintain visible possession, and thus to preserve
the Union from actual and immediate dissolution,—trusting, as
hereinbefore stated, to time, discussion, and the ballot-box, for final
adjustment; and they assailed and reduced the fort for precisely the
reverse object,—to drive out the visible authority of the Federal
Union, and thus force it to immediate dissolution....
That this was their object the Executive well understood; and having
said to them in the inaugural address, "You can have no conflict without
being yourselves the aggressors," he took pains not only to keep this
declaration good, but also to keep the case so free from the power of
ingenious sophistry that the world should not be able to misunderstand
it....
By the affair at Fort Sumter, with its surrounding circumstances, that
point was reached. Then and thereby the assailants of the government
began the conflict of arms, without a gun in sight, or in expectancy to
return their fire, save only the few in the fort sent to that harbour
years before for their own protection, and still ready to give that
protection in whatever was lawful. In this act, discarding all else,
they have forced upon the country the distinct issue, "immediate
dissolution or blood."
And this issue embraces more than the fate of these United States. It
presents to the whole family of man the question whether a
constitutional republic or democracy—a government of the people by the
same people—can or cannot maintain its territorial integrity against
its own domestic foes. It presents the question whether discontented
individuals, too few in numbers to control administration according to
organic law in any case, can always, upon the pretences made in this
case or any other pretences, or arbitrarily without any pretence, break
up their government, and thus practically put an end to free government
upon the earth. It forces us to ask: "Is there, in all republics, this
inherent and fatal weakness?" "Must a government, of necessity, be too
strong for the liberties of its own people, or too weak to maintain its
own existence?"
So viewing the issue, no choice was left but to call out the war power
of the government, and so to resist force employed for its destruction
by force for its preservation.
The call was made, and the response of the country was most gratifying,
surpassing in unanimity and spirit the most sanguine expectation.
... The people of Virginia have thus allowed this giant insurrection to
make its nest within her borders,—and this government has no choice
left but to deal with it where it finds it. And it has the less regret,
as the loyal citizens have in due form claimed its protection. Those
loyal citizens this government is bound to recognize and protect, as
being Virginia.
In the border States, so called,—in fact, the Middle States,—there are
those who favour a policy which they call "armed neutrality;" that is,
an arming of those States to prevent the Union forces passing one way,
or the disunion the other, over their soil. This would be disunion
completed. Figuratively speaking, it would be the building of an
impassable wall along the line of separation,—and yet not quite an
impassable one, for under the guise of neutrality, it would tie the
hands of Union men, and freely pass supplies from among them to the
insurrectionists, which it could not do as an open enemy. At a stroke,
it would take all the trouble off the hands of secession, except only
what proceeds from the external blockade. It would do for the
disunionists that which of all things they most desire,—feed them well
and give them disunion without a struggle of their own. It recognizes no
fidelity to the Constitution, no obligation to maintain the Union; and
while very many who have favoured it are doubtless loyal citizens, it
is, nevertheless, very injurious in effect.
... The forbearance of this government had been so extraordinary and so
long continued, as to lead some foreign nations to shape their action as
if they supposed the early destruction of our National Union was
probable. While this, on discovery, gave the Executive some concern, he
is now happy to say that the sovereignty and rights of the United States
are now everywhere practically respected by foreign powers, and a
general sympathy with the country is manifested throughout the world.
... It is now recommended that you give the legal means for making this
contest a short and decisive one; that you place at the control of the
government for the work, at least four hundred thousand men, and
$400,000,000. That number of men is about one-tenth of those of proper
ages within the regions where, apparently, all are willing to engage;
and the sum is less than a twenty-third part of the money value owned by
the men who seem ready to devote the whole.
... A right result at this time, will be worth more to the world than
ten times the men and ten times the money. The evidences reaching us
from the country leaves no doubt that the material for the work is
abundant, and that it needs only the hand of legislation to give it
legal sanction, and the hand of the Executive to give it practical shape
and efficiency. One of the greatest perplexities of the government is to
avoid receiving troops faster than it can provide for them. In a word,
the people will save their government, if the government itself will do
its part only indifferently well.
It might seem at first thought to be of little difference whether the
present movement at the South be calledsecessionorrebellion. The
movers, however, well understand the difference. At the beginning they
knew they could never raise their treason to any respectable magnitude
by any name which implies violation of law. They knew their people
possessed as much of moral sense, as much of devotion to law and order,
and as much pride in and reverence for the history and government of
their common country as any other civilized and patriotic people. They
knew they could make no advancement directly in the teeth of these
strong and noble sentiments. Accordingly, they commenced by an insidious
debauching of the public mind. They invented an ingenious sophism which,
if conceded, was followed by perfectly logical steps, through all the
incidents, to the complete destruction of the Union. The sophism itself
is that any State of the Union may consistently with the national
Constitution, and therefore lawfully and peacefully, withdraw from the
Union without the consent of the Union or of any other State. The little
disguise that the supposed right is to be exercised only for just
cause, themselves to be the sole judges of its justice, is too thin to
merit any notice.
With rebellion thussugar-coatedthey have been drugging the public
mind of their section for more than thirty years, and until at length
they have brought many good men to a willingness to take up arms against
the government the day after some assemblage of men have enacted the
farcical pretence of taking their State out of the Union, who could have
been brought to no such thing the day before.
This sophism derives much, perhaps the whole of its currency from the
assumption that there is some omnipotent and sacred supremacy pertaining
to a State—to each State of our Federal Union. Our States have neither
more nor less power than that reserved to them in the Union by the
Constitution, no one of them ever having been a State out of the Union.
The original ones passed into the Union even before they cast off their
British colonial dependence, and the new ones each came into the Union
directly from a condition of dependence, excepting Texas. And even Texas
in its temporary independence was never designated a State. The new ones
only took the designation of States on coming into the Union, while that
name was first adopted for the old ones in and by the Declaration of
Independence. Therein the "United Colonies" were declared to be "free
and independent States;" but even then the object plainly was, not to
declare their independence of one another or of the Union, but directly
the contrary, as their mutual pledges and their mutual action before, at
the time, and afterward abundantly show. The express plighting of faith
by each and all of the original thirteen in the Articles of
Confederation two years later, that the Union shall be perpetual, is
most conclusive. Having never been States, either in substance or name,
outside of the Union, whence this magical omnipotence of "State-Rights,"
asserting a claim of power to lawfully destroy the Union itself? Much is
said about the "sovereignty" of the States; but the word is not in the
National Constitution, nor, as is believed, in any of the State
constitutions. What issovereigntyin the political sense of the term?
Would it be far wrong to define it "a political community without a
political superior?" Tested by this, no one of our States, except Texas,
ever was a sovereignty. And even Texas gave up the character on coming
into the Union, by which act she acknowledged the Constitution of the
United States, and the laws and treaties of the United States made in
pursuance of the Constitution, to be for her the supreme law of the
land. The States have their status in the Union, and they have no other
legal status. If they break from this, they can only do so against law
and by revolution. The Union, and not themselves separately, procured
their independence and their liberty. By conquest or purchase, the Union
gave each of them whatever of independence or liberty it has. The Union
is older than any of the States, and, in fact, it created them as
States. Originally some dependent colonies made the Union, and in turn
the Union threw off their old dependence for them, and made them States,
such as they are. Not one of them ever had a State constitution
independent of the Union. Of course it is not forgotten that all the new
States framed their constitutions before they entered the
Union,—nevertheless, dependent upon and preparatory to coming into the
Union.
Unquestionably the States have the powers and the rights reserved to
them in and by the National Constitution; but among these, surely, are
not included all conceivable powers, however mischievous or destructive;
but, at most, such only as were known in the world at the time, as
governmental powers; and, certainly, a power to destroy the government
itself had never been known as a governmental—as a merely
administrative power. This relative matter of National power and States
rights, as a principle, is no other than the principle of generality and
locality. Whatever concerns the whole world should be confided to the
whole—to the General Government; while whatever concerns only the
State should be left exclusively to the State. This is all there is of
original principle about it.... What is now combated, is the position
that secession is consistent with the Constitution—is lawful and
peaceful. It is not contended that there is any express law for it; and
nothing should ever be implied as law which leads to unjust or absurd
consequences.
The nation purchased with money the countries out of which several of
these States were formed; is it just that they shall go off without
leave and without refunding? The nation paid very large sums (in the
aggregate, I believe, nearly a hundred millions) to relieve Florida of
the aboriginal tribes; is it just that she shall now be off without
consent, or without making any return? The nation is now in debt for
money applied to the benefit of these so-called seceding States in
common with the rest; is it just that the creditors shall go unpaid, or
the remaining States pay the whole?... Again, if one State may secede,
so may another; and when all shall have seceded, none is left to pay the
debts. Is this quite just to the creditors? Did we notify them of this
sage view of ours when we borrowed their money? If we now recognize this
doctrine by allowing the seceders to go in peace, it is difficult to see
what we can do if others choose to go, or to extort terms upon which
they will promise to remain.
The seceders insist that our Constitution admits of secession. They have
assumed to make a national constitution of their own, in which, of
necessity, they have either discarded or retained the right of
secession, as they insist it exists in ours. If they have discarded it,
they thereby admit that, on principle, it ought not to be in ours. If
they have retained it, by their own construction of ours, they show that
to be consistent they must secede from one another whenever they shall
find it the easiest way of settling their debts, or effecting any other
or selfish or unjust object. The principle itself is one of
disintegration, and upon which no government can stand.
If all the States save one should assert the power to drive that one out
of the Union, it is presumed the whole class of seceder politicians
would at once deny the power, and denounce the act as the greatest
outrage upon State rights. But suppose that precisely the same act,
instead of being called "driving the one out," should be called "the
seceding of the others from that one," it would be exactly what the
seceders claim to do; unless, indeed, they make the point that the one,
because it is a minority, may rightfully do what the others, because
they are a majority, may not rightfully do....
It may be affirmed without extravagance that the free institutions we
enjoy have developed the powers and improved the condition of our whole
people, beyond any example in the world. Of this we now have a striking
and an impressive illustration. So large an army as the government has
now on foot was never before known, without a soldier in it but who has
taken his place there of his own free choice. But more than this, there
are many single regiments, whose members, one and another, possess full
practical knowledge of all the arts, sciences, and professions, and
whatever else, whether useful or elegant, is known in the world; and
there is scarcely one from which there could not be selected a
President, a cabinet, a congress, and perhaps a court, abundantly
competent to administer the government itself. Nor do I say that this is
not true also in the army of our late friends, now adversaries in this
contest; but if it is, so much the better reason why the government
which has conferred such benefits on both them and us should not be
broken up. Whoever in any section proposes to abandon such a government,
would do well to consider in deference to what principle it is that he
does it; what better he is likely to get in its stead; whether the
substitute will give, or be intended to give, so much of good to the
people? There are some foreshadowings on this subject. Our adversaries
have adopted some declarations of independence in which, unlike the good
old one penned by Jefferson, they omit the words, "all men are created
equal." Why? They have adopted a temporary national constitution, in
the preamble of which, unlike our good old one signed by Washington,
they omit "We, the people," and substitute "We, the deputies of the
sovereign and independent States." Why? Why this deliberate pressing out
of view the rights of men and the authority of the people?
This is essentially a people's contest. On the side of the Union it is a
struggle for maintaining in the world that form and substance of
government whose leading object is to elevate the condition of men,—to
lift artificial weights from all shoulders, to clear the paths of
laudable pursuit for all, to afford all an unfettered start and a fair
chance in the race of life. Yielding to partial and temporary departures
from necessity, this is the leading object of the government for the
existence of which we contend.
I am most happy to believe that the plain people understand and
appreciate this. It is worthy of note that while in this, the
government's hour of trial, large numbers of those in the army and navy
who have been favoured with the offices have resigned and proved false
to the hand which had pampered them, not one common soldier or common
sailor is known to have deserted his flag.
Our popular government has often been called an experiment. Two points
in it our people have already settled,—the successful establishing and
the successful administering of it. One still remains,—its successful
maintenance against a formidable internal attempt to overthrow it. It is
now for them to demonstrate to the world that those who can fairly carry
an election can also suppress a rebellion; that ballots are the rightful
and peaceful successors of bullets; and that when ballots have fairly
and constitutionally decided, there can be no successful appeal back to
bullets; that there can be no successful appeal, except to ballots
themselves, at succeeding elections. Such will be a great lesson of
peace; teaching men that what they cannot take by an election, neither
can they take by a war; teaching all the folly of being the beginners of
a war.
Fellow-citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives, In the midst
of unprecedented political troubles, we have cause of great gratitude to
God for unusual good health and abundant harvests.
You will not be surprised to learn that in the peculiar exigencies of
the times, our intercourse with foreign nations has been attended with
profound solicitude, chiefly turning upon our own domestic affairs.
A disloyal portion of the American people have, during the whole year,
been engaged in an attempt to divide and destroy the Union. A nation
which endures factious domestic division is exposed to disrespect
abroad; and one party, if not both, is sure, sooner or later, to invoke
foreign intervention. Nations thus tempted to interfere are not always
able to resist the counsels of seeming expediency and ungenerous
ambition, although measures adopted under such influences seldom fail to
be injurious and unfortunate to those adopting them.
The disloyal citizens of the United States who have offered the ruin of
our country in return for the aid and comfort which they have invoked
abroad, have received less patronage and encouragement than they
probably expected. If it were just to suppose, as the insurgents have
seemed to assume, that foreign nations in this case, discarding all
moral, social, and treaty obligations, would act solely and selfishly
for the most speedy restoration of commerce, including especially the
acquisition of cotton, those nations appear as yet not to have seen
their way to their object more directly or clearly through the
destruction than through the preservation of the Union. If we could dare
to believe that foreign nations are actuated by no higher principle than
this, I am quite sure a sound argument could be made to show them that
they can reach their aim more readily and easily by aiding to crush
this rebellion than by giving encouragement to it.
The principal lever relied on by the insurgents for exciting foreign
nations to hostility against us, as already intimated, is the
embarrassment of commerce. Those nations, however, not improbably saw
from the first that it was the Union which made as well our foreign as
our domestic commerce. They can scarcely have failed to perceive that
the effort for disunion produces the existing difficulty; and that one
strong nation promises a more durable peace and a more extensive,
valuable, and reliable commerce than can the same nation broken into
hostile fragments.
It continues to develop that the insurrection is largely, if not
exclusively, a war upon the first principle of popular government,—the
rights of the people. Conclusive evidence of this is found in the most
grave and maturely considered public documents, as well as in the
general tone of the insurgents. In those documents we find the
abridgment of the existing right of suffrage, and the denial to the
people of all right to participate in the selection of public officers,
except the legislative, boldly advocated, with laboured arguments to
prove that large control of the people in government is the source of
all political evil. Monarchy itself is sometimes hinted at, as a
possible refuge from the power of the people.
In my present position, I could scarcely be justified were I to omit
raising a warning voice against this approach of returning despotism.
It is not needed nor fitting here that a general argument should be made
in favour of popular institutions; but there is one point, with its
connections, not so hackneyed as most others, to which I ask a brief
attention. It is the effort to place capital on an equal footing with,
if not above, labour, in the structure of government. It is assumed that
labour is available only in connection with capital; that nobody
labours, unless somebody else, owning capital, somehow, by the use of
it, induces him to labour. This assumed, it is next considered whether
it is best that capital shall hire labourers, and thus induce them to
work by their own consent, or buy them and drive them to it without
their consent. Having proceeded thus far, it is naturally concluded that
all labourers are either hired labourers, or what we call slaves. And
further, it is assumed that whoever is once a hired labourer is fixed in
that condition for life.
Now, there is no such relation between capital and labour as assumed,
nor is there any such thing as a free man being fixed for life in the
condition of a hired labourer. Both these assumptions are false, and all
inferences from them are groundless.
Labour is prior to and independent of capital. Capital is only the fruit
of labour, and could never have existed if labour had not first existed.
Labour is the superior of capital, and deserves much the higher
consideration. Capital has its rights, which are as worthy of protection
as any other rights. Nor is it denied that there is, and probably always
will be, a relation between labour and capital, producing mutual
benefits. The error is in assuming that the whole labour of the
community exists within that relation. A few men own capital, and that
few avoid labour themselves, and with their capital hire or buy another
few to labour for them. A large majority belong to neither
class,—neither work for others, nor have others working for them. In
most of the Southern States, a majority of the whole people, of all
colours, are neither slaves nor masters; while in the Northern, a
majority are neither hirers nor hired. Men with their families—wives,
sons, and daughters—work for themselves, on their farms, in their
houses, and in their shops, taking the whole product to themselves, and
asking no favours of capital on the one hand, nor of hired labourers or
slaves on the other. It is not forgotten that a considerable number of
persons mingle their own labour with capital—that is, they labour with
their own hands, and also buy or hire others to labour for them; but
this is only a mixed and not a distinct class. No principle stated is
disturbed by the existence of this mixed class.
Again, as has already been said, there is not of necessity any such
thing as the free, hired labourer being fixed to that condition for
life. Many independent men, everywhere in these States, a few years back
in their lives were hired labourers. The prudent, penniless beginner in
the world labours for wages a while, saves a surplus with which to buy
tools or land for himself, then labours on his own account another
while, and at length hires another new beginner to help him. This is the
just and generous and prosperous system which opens the way to all,
gives hope to all, and consequent energy and progress and improvement of
condition to all. No men living are more worthy to be trusted than those
who toil up from poverty, none less inclined to take or touch aught
which they have not honestly earned. Let them beware of surrendering a
political power which they already possess, and which, if surrendered,
will surely be used to close the door of advancement against such as
they, and to fix new disabilities and burdens upon them, till all of
liberty shall be lost.
My dear Sir, You and I have distinct and different plans for a movement
of the Army of the Potomac—yours to be down the Chesapeake, up the
Rappahannock to Urbana and across land to the terminus of the railroad
on the York River; mine to move directly to a point on the railroad
southwest of Manassas.
If you will give me satisfactory answers to the following questions, I
shall gladly yield my plan to yours.
First.Does not your plan involve a greatly larger expenditure of time
and money than mine?
Second.Wherein is a victory more certain by your plan than mine?
Third.Wherein is a victory more valuable by your plan than mine?
Fourth.In fact, would it not be less valuable in this, that it would
break no great line of the enemy's communications, while mine would?
Fifth.In case of disaster, would not a retreat be more difficult by
your plan than mine?
I have just assisted the Secretary of War in framing part of a despatch
to you, relating to army corps, which despatch of course will have
reached you long before this will.
I wish to say a few words to you privately on this subject. I ordered
the army corps organization, not only on the unanimous opinion of the
twelve generals whom you had selected and assigned as generals of
division, but also on the unanimous opinion of everymilitary manI
could get an opinion from (and every modern military book), yourself
only excepted. Of course I did not on my own judgment pretend to
understand the subject. I now think it indispensable for you to know how
your struggle against it is received in quarters which we cannot
entirely disregard. It is looked upon as merely an effort to pamper one
or two pets and to persecute and degrade their supposed rivals. I have
had no word from Sumner, Heintzelman, or Keyes. The commanders of these
corps are of course the three highest officers with you, but I am
constantly told that you have no consultation or communication with
them,—that you consult and communicate with nobody but General Fitz
John Porter, and perhaps General Franklin. I do not say these complaints
are true or just, but at all events it is proper you should know of
their existence. Do the commanders of corps disobey your orders in
anything?
... Are you strong enough—are you strong enough, even with my help—to
set your foot upon the necks of Sumner, Heintzelman, and Keyes, all at
once? This is a practical and a very serious question for you.
... General Hunter nor any other commander or person has been authorized
by the Government of the United States to make proclamation declaring
the slaves of any State free, and that the supposed proclamation now in
question, whether genuine or false, is altogether void so far as
respects such declaration.... On the sixth day of March last, by a
special Message, I recommended to Congress the adoption of a joint
resolution, to be substantially as follows:—Resolved, That the United
States ought to co-operate with any State which may adopt a gradual
abolishment of slavery, giving to such State earnest expression to
compensate for its inconveniences, public and private, produced by such
change of system.
The resolution in the language above quoted was adopted by large
majorities in both branches of Congress, and now stands an authentic,
definite, and solemn proposal of the nation to the States and people
most immediately interested in the subject-matter. To the people of
those States I now earnestly appeal. I do not argue—I beseech you to
make arguments for yourselves. You cannot, if you would, be blind to the
signs of the times. I beg of you a calm and enlarged consideration of
them, ranging, if it may be, far above personal and partisan politics.
The proposal makes common cause for a common object, casting no
reproaches upon any. It acts not the Pharisee. The change it
contemplates would come gently as the dews of heaven, not rending or
wrecking anything. Will you not embrace it? So much good has not been
done by one effort in all past time as in the providence of God it is
now your high privilege to do. May the vast future not have to lament
that you have neglected it.
After the adjournment of Congress, now near, I shall have no opportunity
of seeing you for several months. Believing that you of the border
States hold more power for good than any other equal number of members,
I feel it a duty which I cannot justifiably waive, to make this appeal
to you.
I do not speak of emancipation at once, but of a decision at once to
emancipate gradually. Room in South America for colonization can be
obtained cheaply and in abundance, and when numbers shall be large
enough to be company and encouragement for one another, the freed people
will not be so reluctant to go.
I am pressed with a difficulty not yet mentioned,—one which threatens
division among those who, united, are none too strong. General Hunter is
an honest man. He was, and I hope still is, my friend. I valued him none
the less for his agreeing with me in the general wish that all men
everywhere could be free. He proclaimed all men free within certain
States, and I repudiated the proclamation. He expected more good and
less harm from the measure than I could believe would follow. Yet in
repudiating it, I gave dissatisfaction if not offence to many whose
support the country cannot afford to lose. And this is not the end of
it. The pressure in this direction is still upon me, and is increasing.
By conceding what I now ask, you can relieve me, and, much more, can
relieve the country, in this important point.
Upon these considerations I have again begged your attention to the
message of March last. Before leaving the Capitol, consider and discuss
it among yourselves. You are patriots and statesmen, and as such, I pray
you, consider this proposition, and at the least commend it to the
consideration of your States and people. As you would perpetuate popular
government for the best people in the world, I beseech you that you do
in no wise omit this. Our common country is in great peril, demanding
the loftiest views and boldest action to bring it speedy relief. Once
relieved, its form of government is saved to the world, its beloved
history and cherished memories are vindicated, and its happy future
fully assured and rendered inconceivably grand.
I intend no reproach or complaint when I assure you that, in my opinion,
if you all had voted for the resolution in the gradual-emancipation
message of last March, the war would now be substantially ended. And the
plan therein proposed is yet one of the most potent and swift means of
ending it. Let the States which are in rebellion see, definitely and
certainly, that in no event will the States you represent ever join
their proposed confederacy, and they cannot much longer maintain the
contest. But you cannot divest them of their hope to ultimately have you
with them, so long as you show a determination to perpetuate the
institution within your own States. Beat them at elections, as you have
overwhelmingly done, and, nothing daunted, they still claim you as their
own. You and I know what the lever of their power is. Break that lever
before their faces, and they can shake you no more for ever.
Most of you have treated me with kindness and consideration, and I trust
you will not now think I improperly touch what is exclusively your own,
when, for the sake of the whole country, I ask, Can you, for your
States, do better than to take the course I urge? Discarding punctilio
and maxims adapted to more manageable times, and looking only to the
unprecedentedly stern facts of our case, can you do better in any
possible event? You prefer that the constitutional relation of the
States to the nation shall be practically restored without disturbance
of the institution; and if this were done, my whole duty in this
respect, under the Constitution and my oath of office, would be
performed. But it is not done, and we are trying to accomplish it by
war. The incidents of the war cannot be avoided. If the war continues
long, as it must if the object be not sooner attained, the institution
in your States will be extinguished by mere friction and abrasion,—by
the mere incidents of the war. It will be gone, and you will have
nothing valuable in lieu of it. Much of its value is gone already. How
much better for you and for your people to take the step which at once
shortens the war and secures substantial compensation for that which is
sure to be wholly lost in any other event? How much better to thus save
the money which else we sink for ever in the war! How much better to do
it while we can, lest the war ere long render us pecuniarily unable to
do it! How much better for you as seller, and the nation as buyer, to
sell out and buy out that without which the war could never have been,
than to sink both the thing to be sold and the price of it in cutting
one another's throats!
Now, I think the true remedy is very different from that suggested by
Mr. Durant. It does not lie in rounding the rough angles of the war, but
in removing the necessity for the war. The people of Louisiana who wish
protection to person and property, have but to reach forth their hands
and take it. Let them in good faith reinaugurate the national authority,
and set up a State government conforming thereto under the Constitution.
They know how to do it, and can have the protection of the army while
doing it. The army will be withdrawn as soon as such government can
dispense with its presence, and the people of the State can then, upon
the old constitutional terms, govern themselves to their own liking.
This is very simple and easy.
If they will not do this, if they prefer to hazard all for the sake of
destroying the government, it is for them to consider whether it is
probable that I will surrender the government to save them from losing
all. If they decline what I suggest, you will scarcely need to ask what
I will do.
What would you do in my position? Would you drop the war where it is, or
would you prosecute it in future with elder-stalk squirts charged with
rose-water? Would you deal lighter blows rather than heavier ones? Would
you give up the contest, leaving any available means untried?
I am in no boastful mood. I shall not do more than I can; but I shall do
all I can to save the government, which is my sworn duty as well as my
personal inclination. I shall do nothing in malice. What I deal with is
too vast for malicious dealing.
Dear Sir, You send to Mr. W—— an extract from a letter written at New
Orleans the 9th instant, which is shown to me. You do not give the
writer's name; but plainly he is a man of ability, and probably of some
note. He says: "The time has arrived when Mr. Lincoln must take a
decisive course. Trying to please everybody, he will satisfy nobody. A
vacillating policy in matters of importance is the very worst. Now is
the time, if ever, for honest men who love their country to rally to its
support. Why will not the North say officially that it wishes for the
restoration of the Union as it was?"
And so, it seems, this is the point on which the writer thinks I have no
policy. Why will he not read and understand what I have said?
The substance of the very declaration he desires is in the inaugural, in
each of the two regular messages to Congress, and in many, if not all,
the minor documents issued by the Executive since the Inauguration.
Broken eggs cannot be mended; but Louisiana has nothing to do now but to
take her place in the Union as it was, barring the already broken eggs.
The sooner she does so, the smaller will be the amount of that which
will be past mending. This government cannot much longer play a game in
which it stakes all, and its enemies stake nothing. Those enemies must
understand that they cannot experiment for ten years trying to destroy
the government, and if they fail still come back into the Union unhurt.
If they expect in any contingency to ever have the Union as it was, I
join with the writer in saying, "Now is the time."
How much better it would have been for the writer to have gone at this,
under the protection of the army at New Orleans, than to have sat down
in a closet writing complaining letters northward.
I have just read yours of the 19th instant, addressed to myself through
the "New York Tribune."
If there be in it any statements or assumptions of fact which I may know
to be erroneous, I do not now and here controvert them.
If there be in it any inferences which I may believe to be falsely
drawn, I do not now and here argue against them.
If there be perceptible in it an impatient and dictatorial tone, I waive
it, in deference to an old friend whose heart I have always supposed to
be right.
As to the policy I "seem to be pursuing," as you say, I have not meant
to leave any one in doubt. I would save the Union. I would save it in
the shortest way under the Constitution.
The sooner the national authority can be restored, the nearer the Union
will be,—the Union as it was.
If there be those who would not save the Union unless they could at the
same time save slavery, I do not agree with them.
If there be those who would not save the Union unless they could at the
same time destroy slavery, I do not agree with them.
My paramount object in this struggle is to save the Union, and not
either to save or to destroy slavery.
If I could save the Union without freeing any slave, I would do it; if I
could save it by freeing all the slaves, I would do it; and if I could
save it by freeing some and leaving others alone, I would also do that.
What I do about slavery and the coloured race, I do because I believe it
helps to save the Union; and what I forbear, I forbear because I do not
believe it would help to save the Union.
I shall do less whenever I shall believe that what I am doing hurts the
cause; and I shall do more whenever I shall believe doing more will help
the cause.
I shall try to correct errors where shown to be errors, and I shall
adopt new views as fast as they shall appear to be true views.
I have here stated my purpose according to my views of official duty,
and I intend no modification of my oft-expressed personal wish that all
men everywhere could be free.
The subject presented in the memorial is one upon which I have thought
much for weeks past, and I may even say for months. I am approached with
the most opposite opinions and advice, and that by religious men, who
are equally certain that they represent the Divine will. I am sure that
either the one or the other class is mistaken in that belief, and
perhaps, in some respects, both. I hope it will not be irreverent for me
to say, that if it is probable that God would reveal His will to others,
on a point so connected with my duty, it might be supposed that He would
reveal it directly to me; for, unless I am more deceived in myself than
I often am, it is my earnest desire to know the will of Providence in
this matter. And if I can learn what it is, I will do it. These are not,
however, the days of miracles, and I suppose it will be granted that I
am not to expect a direct revelation. I must study the plain, physical
facts of the case, ascertain what is possible, and learn what appears
to be wise and right.
The subject is difficult, and good men do not agree. For instance, four
gentlemen of standing and intelligence, from New York, called as a
delegation on business connected with the war; but before leaving, two
of them earnestly besought me to proclaim general emancipation, upon
which the other two at once attacked them. You also know that the last
session of Congress had a decided majority of anti-slavery men, yet they
could not unite on this policy. And the same is true of the religious
people.
Why the rebel soldiers are praying with a great deal more earnestness, I
fear, than our own troops, and expecting God to favour their side: for
one of our soldiers who had been taken prisoner told Senator Wilson a
few days since that he met nothing so discouraging as the evident
sincerity of those he was among in their prayers. But we will talk over
the merits of the case.
What good would a proclamation of emancipation from me do, especially as
we are now situated? I do not want to issue a document that the whole
world will see must necessarily be inoperative, like the Pope's bull
against the comet! Would my word free the slaves, when I cannot even
enforce the Constitution in the rebel States? Is there a single court or
magistrate or individual that would be influenced by it there?
And what reason is there to think it would have any greater effect upon
the slaves than the late law of Congress, which I approved, and which
offers protection and freedom to the slaves of rebel masters who come
within our lines? Yet I cannot learn that that law has caused a single
slave to come over to us. And suppose they could be induced by a
proclamation of freedom from me to throw themselves upon us, what should
we do with them? How can we feed and care for such a multitude? General
Butler wrote me a few days since that he was issuing more rations to the
slaves who have rushed to him than to all the white troops under his
command. They eat, and that is all; though it is true General Butler is
feeding the whites also by the thousand, for it nearly amounts to a
famine there. If now, the pressure of the war should call off our forces
from New Orleans to defend some other point, what is to prevent the
masters from reducing the blacks to slavery again? For I am told that
whenever the rebels take any black prisoners, free or slave, they
immediately auction them off! They did so with those they took from a
boat that was aground in the Tennessee River a few days ago. And then I
am very ungenerously attacked for it. For instance, when, after the late
battles at and near Bull Run, an expedition went out from Washington
under a flag of truce to bury the dead and bring in the wounded, and the
rebels seized the blacks who went along to help, and sent them into
slavery, Horace Greeley said in his paper "that the government would
probably do nothing about it." What could I do?
Now, then, tell me, if you please, what possible result of good would
follow the issuing of such a proclamation as you desire? Understand, I
raise no objections against it on legal or constitutional grounds, for,
as commander-in-chief of the army and navy, in time of war I suppose I
have a right to take any measures which may best subdue the enemy; nor
do I urge objections of a moral nature, in view of possible consequences
of insurrection and massacre at the South. I view this matter as a
practical war-measure, to be decided on according to the advantages or
disadvantages it may offer to the suppression of the rebellion.
[The committee had said that emancipation would secure us the sympathy
of the world, slavery being the cause of the war. To which the President
replied:]
I admit that slavery is at the root of the rebellion, or at least itssine qua non. The ambition of politicians may have instigated them to
act, but they would have been impotent without slavery as their
instrument. I will also concede that emancipation would help us in
Europe, and convince them that we are incited by something more than
ambition. I grant further, that it would help somewhat at the North,
though not so much, I fear, as you and those you represent, imagine.
Still, some additional strength would be added in that way to the
war,—and then, unquestionably, it would weaken the rebels by drawing
off their labourers, which is of great importance; but I am not so sure
that we could do much with the blacks. If we were to arm them, I fear
that in a few weeks the arms would be in the hands of the rebels; and
indeed, thus far, we have not had arms enough to equip our white troops.
I will mention another thing, though it meet only your scorn and
contempt. There are fifty thousand bayonets in the Union armies from the
border slave States. It would be a serious matter if, in consequence of
a proclamation such as you desire, they should go over to the rebels. I
do not think they all would,—not so many indeed, as a year ago, nor as
six months ago; not so many to-day as yesterday. Every day increases
their Union feeling. They are also getting their pride enlisted, and
want to beat the rebels. Let me say one thing more: I think you should
admit that we already have an important principle to rally and unite the
people, in the fact that constitutional government is at stake. This is
a fundamental idea, going down about as deep as anything.
Do not misunderstand me because I have mentioned these objections. They
indicate the difficulties that have thus far prevented my action in some
such way as you desire. I have not decided against a proclamation of
liberty to the slaves, but hold the matter under advisement. And I can
assure you that the subject is on my mind by day and night, more than
any other. Whatever shall appear to be God's will, I will do. I trust
that in the freedom with which I have canvassed your views, I have not
in any respect injured your feelings.
Since your last annual assembling, another year of health and bountiful
harvests has passed; and while it has not pleased the Almighty to bless
us with a return of peace, we can but press on, guided by the best light
He gives us, trusting that in His own good time and wise way, all will
yet be well.
The correspondence, touching foreign affairs, which has taken place
during the last year, is herewith submitted, in virtual compliance with
a request to that effect made by the House of Representatives near the
close of the last session of Congress.
If the condition of our relations with other nations is less gratifying
than it has usually been at former periods, it is certainly more
satisfactory than a nation so unhappily distracted as we are, might
reasonably have apprehended. In the month of June last, there were some
grounds to expect that the maritime powers, which, at the beginning of
our domestic difficulties, so unwisely and unnecessarily, as we think,
recognized the insurgents as a belligerent, would soon recede from that
position, which has proved only less injurious to themselves than to our
own country. But the temporary reverses which afterward befell the
national arms, and which were exaggerated by our own disloyal citizens
abroad, have hitherto delayed that act of simple justice.
The Civil War, which has so radically changed for the moment the
occupations and habits of the American people, has necessarily disturbed
the social condition and affected very deeply the prosperity of the
nations with which we have carried on a commerce that has been steadily
increasing throughout a period of half a century. It has, at the same
time, excited political ambitions and apprehensions which have produced
a profound agitation throughout the civilized world. In this unusual
agitation we have forborne from taking part in any controversy between
foreign States, and between parties or factions in such States. We have
attempted no propagandism and acknowledged no revolution. But we have
left to every nation the exclusive conduct and management of its own
affairs. Our struggle has been, of course, contemplated by foreign
nations with reference less to its own merits than to its supposed and
often exaggerated effects and consequences resulting to those nations
themselves. Nevertheless, complaint on the part of this government, even
if it were just, would certainly be unwise....
There is no line, straight or crooked, suitable for a national boundary,
upon which to divide. Trace through from east to west upon the line
between the free and the slave country, and we shall find a little more
than one-third of its length are rivers, easy to be crossed, and
populated, or soon to be populated, thickly upon both sides; while
nearly all its remaining length are merely surveyors' lines, over which
people may walk back and forth without any consciousness of their
presence. No part of this line can be made any more difficult to pass,
by writing it down on paper or parchment as a national boundary. The
fact of separation, if it comes, gives up, on the part of the seceding
section, the fugitive-slave clause, along with all other constitutional
obligations upon the section seceded from, while I should expect no
treaty stipulation would be ever made to take its place.
But there is another difficulty. The great interior region bounded east
by the Alleghanies, north by the British dominions, west by the Rocky
Mountains, and south by the line along which the culture of corn and
cotton meets, ... already has above ten millions of people, and will
have fifty millions within fifty years, if not prevented by any
political folly or mistake. It contains more than one-third of the
country owned by the United States,—certainly more than one million of
square miles. Once half as populous as Massachusetts already is, and it
would have more than seventy-five millions of people. A glance at the
map shows that, territorially speaking, it is the great body of the
republic. The other parts are but marginal borders to it, the
magnificent region sloping west from the Rocky Mountains to the Pacific
being the deepest, and also the richest, in undeveloped resources. In
the production of provisions, grains, grasses, and all which proceed
from them, this great interior region is naturally one of the most
important in the world. Ascertain from the statistics the small
proportion of the region which has, as yet, been brought into
cultivation, and also the large and rapidly increasing amount of its
products, and we shall be overwhelmed with the magnitude of the prospect
presented. And yet this region has no sea-coast, touches no ocean
anywhere. As part of one nation, its people now find, and may for ever
find, their way to Europe by New York, to South America and Africa by
New Orleans, and to Asia by San Francisco. But separate our common
country into two nations, as designed by the present rebellion, and
every man of this great interior region is thereby cut off from one or
more of these outlets,—not perhaps by a physical barrier, but by
embarrassing and onerous trade regulations.
And this is true, wherever a dividing or boundary line may be fixed.
Place it between the now free and slave country, or place it south of
Kentucky, or north of Ohio, and still the truth remains that none south
of it can trade to any port or place north of it, except upon terms
dictated by a government foreign to them. These outlets, east, west, and
south, are indispensable to the well-being of the people inhabiting, and
to inhabit, this vast interior region. Which of the three may be the
best, is no proper question. All are better than either; and all of
right belong to that people and their successors for ever. True to
themselves, they will not ask where a line of separation shall be, but
will vow rather that there shall be no such line. Nor are the marginal
regions less interested in these communications to and through them to
the great outside world. They too, and each of them, must have access to
this Egypt of the west, without paying toll at the crossing of any
national boundary.
Our national strife springs not from our permanent part, not from the
land we inhabit, not from our national homestead. There is no possible
severing of this but would multiply and not mitigate evils among us. In
all its adaptations and aptitudes, it demands union and abhors
separation. In fact, it would ere long force reunion, however much of
blood and treasure the separation might have cost....
Fellow-citizens, we cannot escape history. We of this Congress and this
Administration will be remembered in spite of ourselves. No personal
significance or insignificance can spare one or another of us. The fiery
trial through which we pass will light us down, in honour or dishonour,
to the latest generation. We say we are for the Union. The world will
not forget that we say this. We know how to save the Union. The world
knows we do know how to save it.
We, even we here, hold the power and bear the responsibility. In giving
freedom to the slave, we assure freedom to the free,—honourable alike
in what we give and what we preserve. We shall nobly save or meanly lose
the last, best hope of earth. Other means may succeed; this could not
fail. The way is plain, peaceful, generous, just,—a way which, if
followed, the world will for ever applaud, and God must for ever bless.
Whereas, on the twenty-second day of September, in the year of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two, a proclamation was issued by
the President of the United States, containing, among other things, the
following, to wit:
"That on the first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and sixty-three, all persons held as slaves within any
State, or designated part of a State, the people whereof shall then be
in rebellion against the United States, shall be then, thenceforward,
and for ever free; and the Executive Government of the United States,
including the military and naval authority thereof, will recognize and
maintain the freedom of such persons, and will do no act or acts to
repress such persons, or any of them, in any efforts they may make for
their actual freedom.
"That the Executive will, on the first day of January aforesaid, by
proclamation, designate the States and parts of States, if any, in which
the people thereof respectively shall then be in rebellion against the
United States; and the fact that any State, or the people thereof, shall
on that day be in good faith represented in the Congress of the United
States by members chosen thereto at elections wherein a majority of the
qualified voters of such State shall have participated, shall in the
absence of strong countervailing testimony be deemed conclusive evidence
that such State and the people thereof are not then in rebellion against
the United States."
Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, by
virtue of the power in me vested as commander-in-chief of the army and
navy of the United States, in time of actual armed rebellion against the
authority and government of the United States, and as a fit and
necessary war measure for suppressing said rebellion, do, on this first
day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
sixty-three, and in accordance with my purpose so to do, publicly
proclaimed for the full period of one hundred days from the day first
above mentioned, order and designate as the States and parts of States
wherein the people thereof, respectively, are this day in rebellion
against the United States, the following, to wit:
Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana (except the parishes of St. Bernard,
Plaquemines, Jefferson, St. John, St. Charles, St. James, Ascension,
Assumption, Terrebonne, Lafourche, St. Mary, St. Martin, and Orleans,
including the city of New Orleans), Mississippi, Alabama, Florida,
Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, and Virginia (except the
forty-eight counties designated as West Virginia, and also the counties
of Berkeley, Accomac, Northampton, Elizabeth City, York, Princess Anne,
and Norfolk, including the cities of Norfolk and Portsmouth), and which
excepted parts are for the present left precisely as if this
proclamation were not issued.
And by virtue of the power and for the purpose aforesaid, I do order and
declare that all persons held as slaves within said designated States
and parts of States are, and henceforward shall be, free; and that the
Executive Government of the United States, including the military and
naval authorities thereof, will recognize and maintain the freedom of
said persons.
And I hereby enjoin upon the people so declared to be free to abstain
from all violence, unless in necessary self-defence; and I recommend to
them that, in all cases when allowed, they labour faithfully for
reasonable wages.
And I further declare and make known that such persons of suitable
condition will be received into the armed service of the United States
to garrison forts, positions, stations, and other places, and to man
vessels of all sorts in said service.
And upon this act, sincerely believed to be an act of justice, warranted
by the Constitution upon military necessity, I invoke the considerate
judgment of mankind and the gracious favour of Almighty God.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of
the United States to be affixed.
Done at the city of Washington, this first day of January, in the year
of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the
independence of the United States of America the eighty-seventh.
My dear General, I do not remember that you and I ever met personally. I
write this now as a grateful acknowledgment for the almost inestimable
service you have done the country. I wish to say a word further. When
you first reached the vicinity of Vicksburg, I thought you should do
what you finally did—march the troops across the neck, run the
batteries with the transports, and thus go below; and I never had any
faith, except a general hope that you knew better than I, that the Yazoo
Pass expedition and the like could succeed. When you got below and took
Port Gibson, Grand Gulf, and vicinity, I thought you should go down the
river and join General Banks, and when you turned northward, east of the
Big Black, I feared it was a mistake. I now wish to make the personal
acknowledgment that you were right and I was wrong.
My dear Sir, There has been a good deal of complaint against you by your
superior officers of the Provost-Marshal-General's Department, and your
removal has been strongly urged on the ground of "persistent
disobedience of orders and neglect of duty." Firmly convinced, as I am,
of the patriotism of your motives, I am unwilling to do anything in your
case which may seem unnecessarily harsh or at variance with the feelings
of personal respect and esteem with which I have always regarded you. I
consider your services in your district valuable, and should be sorry to
lose them. It is unnecessary for me to state, however, that when
differences of opinion arise between officers of the government, the
ranking officer must be obeyed. You of course recognize as clearly as I
do the importance of this rule. I hope you will conclude to go on in
your present position under the regulations of the department. I wish
you would write to me.
My dear Wife, All as well as usual, and no particular trouble anyway. I
put the money into the Treasury at five per cent., with the privilege of
withdrawing it any time upon thirty days' notice. I suppose you are glad
to learn this. Tell dear Tad poor "Nanny Goat" is lost, and Mrs.
Cuthbert and I are in distress about it. The day you left Nanny was
found resting herself and chewing her little cud on the middle of Tad's
bed; but now she's gone! The gardener kept complaining that she
destroyed the flowers, till it was concluded to bring her down to the
White House. This was done, and the second day she had disappeared and
has not been heard of since. This is the last we know of poor "Nanny."
My dear Sir, Months ago I should have acknowledged the receipt of your
book and accompanying kind note; and I now have to beg your pardon for
not having done so.
For one of my age I have seen very little of the drama. The first
presentation of Falstaff I ever saw was yours here, last winter or
spring. Perhaps the best compliment I can pay is to say, as I truly can,
I am very anxious to see it again. Some of Shakespeare's plays I have
never read; while others I have gone over perhaps as frequently as any
unprofessional reader. Among the latter areLear,Richard III.,Henry VIII.,Hamlet, and especiallyMacbeth. I think nothing
equalsMacbeth. It is wonderful.
Unlike you gentlemen of the profession, I think the soliloquy inHamletcommencing "Oh, my offence is rank," surpasses that commencing
"To be or not to be." But pardon this small attempt at criticism. I
should like to hear you pronounce the opening speech of Richard III.
Will you not soon visit Washington again? If you do, please call and let
me make your personal acquaintance.
Dear Sir, I personally wish Jacob Freese, of New Jersey, to be appointed
Colonel of a coloured regiment, and this regardless of whether he can
tell the exact shade of Julius Cæsar's hair.
Your letter inviting me to attend a mass meeting of unconditional Union
men, to be held at the capital of Illinois on the third day of
September, has been received. It would be very agreeable to me to thus
meet my old friends at my own home, but I cannot just now be absent from
here so long as a visit there would require.
The meeting is to be of all those who maintain unconditional devotion to
the Union; and I am sure my old political friends will thank me for
tendering, as I do, the nation's gratitude to those and other noble men
whom no partisan malice or partisan hope can make false to the nation's
life.
There are those who are dissatisfied with me. To such I would say: You
desire peace, and you blame me that we do not have it. But how can we
attain it? There are but three conceivable ways. First, to suppress the
rebellion by force of arms. This I am trying to do. Are you for it? If
you are, so far we are agreed. If you are not for it, a second way is to
give up the Union. I am against this. Are you for it? If you are, you
should say so plainly. If you are not for force, nor yet for
dissolution, there only remains some imaginable compromise. I do not
believe any compromise embracing the maintenance of the Union is now
possible. All I learn leads to a directly opposite belief. The strength
of the rebellion is its military, its army. That army dominates all the
country and all the people within its range. Any offer of terms made by
any man or men within that range, in opposition to that army, is simply
nothing for the present, because such man or men have no power whatever
to enforce their side of a compromise, if one were made with them.
To illustrate: Suppose refugees from the South and peace men of the
North get together in convention, and frame and proclaim a compromise
embracing a restoration of the Union. In what way can that compromise be
used to keep Lee's army out of Pennsylvania? Meade's army can keep Lee's
out of Pennsylvania, and, I think, can ultimately drive it out of
existence. But no paper compromise, to which the controllers of Lee's
army are not agreed, can at all affect that army. In an effort at such
compromise we should waste time which the enemy would improve to our
disadvantage; and that would be all. A compromise, to be effective, must
be made either with those who control the rebel army, or with the people
first liberated from the domination of that army by the success of our
own army. Now, allow me to assure you that no word or intimation from
that rebel army, or from any of the men controlling it, in relation to
any peace compromise, has ever come to my knowledge or belief. All
charges and insinuations to the contrary are deceptive and groundless.
And I promise you that if any such proposition shall hereafter come, it
shall not be rejected and kept a secret from you. I freely acknowledge
myself the servant of the people, according to the bond of service,—the
United States Constitution,—and that, as such, I am responsible to
them.
But to be plain. You are dissatisfied with me about the negro. Quite
likely there is a difference of opinion between you and myself upon that
subject. I certainly wish that all men could be free, while I suppose
you do not. Yet I have neither adopted nor proposed any measure which is
not consistent with even your views, provided you are for the Union. I
suggested compensated emancipation, to which you replied, you wished
not to be taxed to buy negroes. But I had not asked you to be taxed to
buy negroes, except in such way as to save you from greater taxation to
save the Union exclusively by other means.
You dislike the Emancipation Proclamation, and perhaps would have it
retracted. You say it is unconstitutional. I think differently. I think
the Constitution invests its commander-in-chief with the law of war in
time of war. The most that can be said—if so much—is that slaves are
property. Is there, has there ever been, any question that, by the law
of war, property, both of enemies and friends, may be taken when needed?
And is it not needed whenever taking it helps us or hurts the enemy?
Armies the world over destroy enemies' property when they cannot use it,
and even destroy their own to keep it from the enemy. Civilized
belligerents do all in their power to help themselves or hurt the enemy,
except a few things regarded as barbarous or cruel. Among the exceptions
are the massacre of vanquished foes and non-combatants, male and female.
But the proclamation, as law, either is valid or is not valid. If it is
not valid, it needs no retraction. If it is valid, it cannot be
retracted any more than the dead can be brought to life. Some of you
profess to think its retraction would operate favourably for the Union.
Why better after the retraction than before the issue? There was more
than a year and a half of trial to suppress the rebellion before the
proclamation issued, the last one hundred days of which passed under an
explicit notice that it was coming, unless averted by those in revolt
returning to their allegiance. The war has certainly progressed as
favourably for us since the issue of the proclamation as before. I know,
as fully as one can know the opinions of others, that some of the
commanders of our armies in the field who have given us our most
important successes, believe the emancipation policy and the use of
coloured troops constitute the heaviest blow yet dealt to the rebellion,
and that at least one of these important successes could not have been
achieved when it was but for the aid of black soldiers. Among the
commanders holding these views are some who have never had any affinity
with what is called Abolitionism or with Republican party politics, but
who hold them purely as military opinions. I submit these opinions as
being entitled to some weight against the objections often urged, that
emancipation and arming the blacks are unwise as military measures, and
were not adopted as such in good faith.
You say you will not fight to free negroes. Some of them seem willing to
fight for you; but no matter. Fight you, then, exclusively to save the
Union. I issued the proclamation on purpose to aid you in saving the
Union. Whenever you shall have conquered all resistance to the Union, if
I shall urge you to continue fighting, it will be an apt time then for
you to declare you will not fight to free negroes.
I thought that in your struggle for the Union, to whatever extent the
negroes should cease helping the enemy, to that extent it weakened the
enemy in his resistance to you. Do you think differently? I thought that
whatever negroes could be got to do as soldiers leaves just so much less
for white soldiers to do in saving the Union. Does it appear otherwise
to you? But negroes, like other people, act upon motives. Why should
they do anything for us, if we will do nothing for them? If they stake
their lives for us, they must be prompted by the strongest motive, even
the promise of freedom. And the promise being made, must be kept.
The signs look better. The Father of Waters again goes unvexed to the
sea. Thanks to the great Northwest for it. Nor yet wholly to them. Three
hundred miles up they met New England, Empire, Keystone, and Jersey
hewing their way right and left. The sunny South, too, in more colours
than one, also lent a hand. On the spot, their part of the history was
jotted down in black and white. The job was a great national one, and
let none be banned who bore an honourable part in it. And while those
who cleared the great river may well be proud, even that is not all. It
is hard to say that anything has been more bravely and well done than at
Antietam, Murfreesboro, Gettysburg, and on many fields of lesser note.
Nor must Uncle Sam's web-feet be forgotten. At all the watery margins
they have been present. Not only on the deep sea, the broad bay, and the
rapid river, but also up the narrow, muddy bayou, and wherever the
ground was a little damp, they have been and made their tracks. Thanks
to all,—for the great Republic, for the principle it lives by and keeps
alive, for man's vast future,—thanks to all.
Peace does not appear so distant as it did. I hope it will come soon,
and come to stay; and so come as to be worth the keeping in all future
time. It will then have been proved that among freemen there can be no
successful appeal from the ballot to the bullet, and that they who take
such appeal are sure to lose their case and pay the cost. And then there
will be some black men who can remember that with silent tongue, and
clenched teeth, and steady eye, and well-poised bayonet, they have
helped mankind on to this great consummation, while I fear there will be
some white ones unable to forget that with malignant heart and deceitful
speech they strove to hinder it.
Still, let us not be over-sanguine of a speedy, final triumph. Let us be
quite sober. Let us diligently apply the means, never doubting that a
just God, in His own good time, will give us the rightful result.
The year that is drawing toward its close has been filled with the
blessings of fruitful fields and healthful skies. To these bounties,
which are so constantly enjoyed that we are prone to forget the source
from which they come, others have been added, which are of so
extraordinary a nature that they cannot fail to penetrate and soften the
heart which is habitually insensible to the ever-watchful providence of
Almighty God.
In the midst of a civil war of unequalled magnitude and severity, which
has sometimes seemed to foreign States to invite and provoke their
aggressions, peace has been preserved with all nations, order has been
maintained, the laws have been respected and obeyed, and harmony has
prevailed everywhere, except in the theatre of military conflict; while
that theatre has been greatly contracted by the advancing armies and
navies of the Union.
Needful diversions of wealth and strength from the fields of peaceful
industry to the national defence have not arrested the plough, the
shuttle, or the ship; the axe has enlarged the borders of our
settlements, and the mines, as well of iron and coal as of the precious
metals, have yielded even more abundantly than heretofore. Population
has steadily increased, notwithstanding the waste that has been made in
the camp, the siege, and the battle-field; and the country, rejoicing in
the consciousness of augmented strength and vigour, is permitted to
expect continuance of years with large increase of freedom.
No human counsel hath devised, nor hath any mortal hand worked out these
great things. They are the gracious gifts of the Most High God, who,
while dealing with us in anger for our sins, hath nevertheless
remembered mercy.
It has seemed to me fit and proper that they should be solemnly,
reverently, and gratefully acknowledged as with one heart and one voice
by the whole American people. I do, therefore, invite, my
fellow-citizens in every part of the United States, and also those who
are at sea, and those sojourning in foreign lands, to set apart and
observe the last Thursday of November next as a day of thanksgiving and
praise to our beneficent Father who dwelleth in the heavens. And I
recommend to them that while offering up the ascriptions justly due to
Him for such singular deliverances and blessings, they do also, with
humble penitence for our national perverseness and disobedience, commend
to His tender care all those who have become widows, orphans, mourners,
or sufferers in the lamentable civil strife in which we are unavoidably
engaged, and fervently implore the interposition of the Almighty Hand to
heal the wounds of the nation, and to restore it, as soon as may be
consistent with the Divine purposes, to the full enjoyment of peace,
harmony, tranquillity, and union.
Fourscore and seven years ago our fathers brought forth upon this
continent a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the
proposition that all men are created equal.
Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or
any nation so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. We are met on
a great battle-field of that war. We have come to dedicate a portion of
that field as a final resting-place for those who here gave their lives
that that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we
should do this.
But in a larger sense we cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we
cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled
here, have consecrated it far above our power to add or detract. The
world will little note nor long remember what we say here, but it can
never forget what they did here. It is for us, the living, rather, to be
dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have
thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to
the great task remaining before us; that from these honoured dead we
take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full
measure of devotion; that we here highly resolve that these dead shall
not have died in vain; that this nation, under God, shall have a new
birth of freedom; and that government of the people, by the people, and
for the people, shall not perish from the earth.
... When Congress assembled a year ago, the war had already lasted
nearly twenty months, and there had been many conflicts on both land and
sea, with varying results. The rebellion had been pressed back into
reduced limits; yet the tone of public feeling and opinion at home and
abroad was not satisfactory. With other signs, the popular elections
then just past indicated uneasiness among ourselves; while, amid much
that was cold and menacing, the kindest words coming from Europe were
uttered in accents of pity that we were too blind to surrender a
hopeless cause. Our commerce was suffering greatly from a few vessels
built upon and furnished from foreign shores, and we were threatened
with such additions from the same quarter as would sweep our trade from
the seas and raise our blockade. We had failed to elicit from European
governments anything hopeful upon this subject. The preliminary
Emancipation Proclamation, issued in September, was running its assigned
period to the beginning of the new year. A month later the final
proclamation came, including the announcement that coloured men of
suitable condition would be received into the war service. The policy of
emancipation and of employing black soldiers gave to the future a new
aspect, about which hope and fear and doubt contended in uncertain
conflict. According to our political system, as a matter of civil
administration, the general government had no lawful power to effect
emancipation in any State, and for a long time it had been hoped that
the rebellion could be suppressed without resorting to it as a military
measure. It was all the while deemed possible that the necessity for it
might come and that, if it should, the crisis of the contest would then
be presented. It came, and, as was anticipated, was followed by dark and
doubtful days. Eleven months having now passed, we are permitted to take
another review. The rebel borders are pressed still farther back, and by
the complete opening of the Mississippi, the country dominated by the
rebellion is divided into distinct parts, with no practical
communication between them. Tennessee and Arkansas have been
substantially cleared of insurgent control, and influential citizens in
each, owners of slaves and advocates of slavery at the beginning of the
rebellion, now declare openly for emancipation in their respective
States. Of those States not included in the Emancipation Proclamation,
Maryland and Missouri, neither of which three years ago would tolerate
any restraint upon the extension of slavery into new Territories, only
dispute now as to the best mode of removing it within their own limits.
Of those who were slaves at the beginning of the rebellion, full one
hundred thousand are now in the United States military service, about
one-half of which number actually bear arms in the ranks; thus giving
the double advantage of taking so much labour from the insurgent cause
and supplying the places which otherwise must be filled with so many
white men. So far as tested, it is difficult to say they are not as good
soldiers as any. No servile insurrection or tendency to violence or
cruelty has marked the measures of emancipation and arming the blacks.
These measures have been much discussed in foreign countries, and
contemporary with such discussion the tone of public sentiment there is
much improved. At home the same measures have been fully discussed,
supported, criticized, and denounced, and the annual elections following
are highly encouraging to those whose official duty it is to bear the
country through this great trial. Thus we have the new reckoning. The
crisis which threatened to divide the friends of the Union is passed.
My dear Sir, A poor widow, by the name of Baird, has a son in the army,
that for some offence has been sentenced to serve a long time without
pay, or at most with very little pay. I do not like this punishment of
withholding pay—it falls so very hard upon poor families. After he had
been serving in this way for several months, at the tearful appeal of
the poor mother, I made a direction that he be allowed to enlist for a
new term, on the same condition as others. She now comes, and says she
cannot get it acted upon. Please do it.
My dear Sir, I congratulate you on having fixed your name in history as
the first free-State governor of Louisiana. Now you are about to have a
convention, which, among other things, will probably define the elective
franchise. I barely suggest for your private consideration, whether some
of the coloured people may not be let in—as, for instance, the very
intelligent, and especially those who have fought gallantly in our
ranks. They would probably help, in some trying time to come, to keep
the jewel of liberty within the family of freedom. But this is only a
suggestion, not to the public, but to you alone.
I appear to say but a word. This extraordinary war in which we are
engaged falls heavily upon all classes of people, but the most heavily
upon the soldier. For it has been said, "all that a man hath will he
give for his life;" and while all contribute of their substance, the
soldier puts his life at stake, and often yields it up in his country's
cause.The highest merit, then, is due to the soldier.
In this extraordinary war extraordinary developments have manifested
themselves, such as have not been seen in former wars; and amongst these
manifestations nothing has been more remarkable than these fairs for the
relief of suffering soldiers and their families. And the chief agents in
these fairs are the women of America.
I am not accustomed to the language of eulogy. I have never studied the
art of paying compliments to women. But I must say, that if all that has
been said by orators and poets since the creation of the world in praise
of women were applied to the women of America, it would not do them
justice for their conduct during this war. I will close by saying, God
bless the women of America!
I am naturally anti-slavery. If slavery is not wrong, nothing is wrong.
I cannot remember when I did not so think and feel, and yet I have never
understood that the Presidency conferred upon me an unrestricted right
to act officially upon this judgment and feeling. It was in the oath
that I took, that I would, to the best of my ability, preserve, protect,
and defend the Constitution of the United States. I could not take
office without taking the oath. Nor was it my view that I might take an
oath to get power, and break the oath in using the power. I understood,
too, that in ordinary civil administration this oath even forbade me to
practically indulge my primary abstract judgment on the moral question
of slavery. I had publicly declared this many times and in many ways.
And I aver that, to this day, I have done no official act in mere
deference to my abstract feeling and judgment on slavery. I did
understand, however, that my oath to preserve the Constitution to the
best of my ability imposed upon me the duty of preserving, by every
indispensable means, that government—that nation—of which that
Constitution was the organic law. Was it possible to lose the nation and
yet preserve the Constitution? By general law, life and limb must be
protected, yet often a limb must be amputated to save a life; but a life
is never wisely given to save a limb. I felt that measures, otherwise
unconstitutional, might become lawful by becoming indispensable to the
preservation of the Constitution through the preservation of the nation.
Right or wrong, I assumed this ground; and now avow it. I could not feel
that, to the best of my ability, I had even tried to preserve the
Constitution, if, to save slavery or any minor matter, I should permit
the wreck of government, country, and Constitution, all together. When,
early in the war, General Fremont attempted military emancipation, I
forbade it, because I did not then think it an indispensable necessity.
When, a little later, General Cameron, then Secretary of War, suggested
the arming of the blacks, I objected, because I did not think it an
indispensable necessity. When, still later, General Hunter attempted
military emancipation, I again forbade it, because I did not yet think
the indispensable necessity had come. When, in March and May and July,
1862, I made earnest and successive appeals to the border States to
favour compensated emancipation, I believed the indispensable necessity
for military emancipation and arming the blacks would come, unless
averted by that measure. They declined the proposition, and I was, in my
best judgment, driven to the alternative of either surrendering the
Union, and with it the Constitution, or laying strong hand upon the
coloured element. I chose the latter. In choosing it, I hoped for
greater gain than loss; but of this I was not entirely confident. More
than a year of trial now shows no loss by it in our foreign relations,
none in our home popular sentiment, none in our white military
force,—no loss by it anyhow or anywhere. On the contrary, it shows a
gain of quite one hundred and thirty thousand soldiers, seamen, and
labourers. These are palpable facts, about which, as facts, there can be
no cavilling. We have the men, and we could not have had them without
the measure.
And now let any Union man who complains of the measure, test himself by
writing down in one line that he is for subduing the rebellion by force
of arms; and in the next, that he is for taking these hundred and thirty
thousand men from the Union side, and placing them where they would be
but for the measure he condemns. If he cannot face his case so stated,
it is only because he cannot face the truth.
I add a word which was not in the verbal conversation. In telling this
tale, I attempt no compliment to my own sagacity. I claim not to have
controlled events, but confess plainly that events have controlled me.
Now, at the end of three years' struggle, the nation's condition is not
what either party, or any man, devised or expected. God alone can claim
it. Whither it is tending seems plain. If God now wills the removal of a
great wrong, and wills also that we of the North, as well as you of the
South, shall pay fairly for our complicity in that wrong, impartial
history will find therein new cause to attest and revere the justice and
goodness of God.
... The world has never had a good definition of the word "liberty," and
the American people, just now, are much in want of one. We all declare
for liberty; but in using the same word, we do not all mean the same
thing. With some, the word "liberty" may mean for each man to do as he
pleases with himself and the product of his labour; while with others,
the same word may mean for some men to do as they please with other men
and the product of other men's labour. Here are two, not only different,
but incompatible things, called by the same name,—liberty. And it
follows that each of the things is, by the respective parties, called by
two different and incompatible names,—liberty and tyranny.
The shepherd drives the wolf from the sheep's throat, for which the
sheep thanks the shepherd as his liberator, while the wolf denounces him
for the same act as the destroyer of liberty, especially as the sheep
was a black one. Plainly, the sheep and the wolf are not agreed upon a
definition of the word "liberty;" and precisely the same difference
prevails to-day, among us human creatures, even in the North, and all
professing to love liberty. Hence we behold the process by which
thousands are daily passing from under the yoke of bondage hailed by
some as the advance of liberty, and bewailed by others as the
destruction of all liberty. Recently, as it seems, the people of
Maryland have been doing something to define liberty, and thanks to them
that, in what they have done, the wolf's dictionary has been repudiated.
Not expecting to see you again before the spring campaign opens, I wish
to express in this way my entire satisfaction with what you have done up
to this time, so far as I understand it. The particulars of your plans I
neither know nor seek to know. You are vigilant and self-reliant; and,
pleased with this, I wish not to obtrude any constraints nor restraints
upon you. While I am very anxious that any great disaster or capture of
our men in great numbers shall be avoided, I know these points are less
likely to escape your attention than they would be mine. If there is
anything wanting which is within my power to give, do not fail to let me
know it. And now, with a brave army and a just cause, may God sustain
you.
I almost always feel inclined, when I happen to say anything to
soldiers, to impress upon them, in a few brief remarks, the importance
of success in this contest. It is not merely for to-day, but for all
time to come, that we should perpetuate for our children's children that
great and free government which we have enjoyed all our lives. I beg you
to remember this, not merely for my sake, but for yours. I happen,
temporarily, to occupy this White House. I am a living witness that any
one of your children may look to come here as my father's child has. It
is in order that each one of you may have, through this free government
which we have enjoyed, an open field and a fair chance for your
industry, enterprise, and intelligence; that you may all have equal
privileges in the race of life, with all its desirable human
aspirations. It is for this the struggle should be maintained, that we
may not lose our birthright—not only for one, but for two or three
years. The nation is worth fighting for, to secure such an inestimable
jewel.
It has long been a grave question whether any government not too strong
for the liberties of its people, can be strong enough to maintain its
existence in great emergencies. On this point the present rebellion
brought our Republic to a severe test; and a presidential election,
occurring in regular course during the rebellion, added not a little to
the strain.
If the loyal people united were put to the utmost of their strength by
the rebellion, must they not fail when divided and partially paralyzed
by a political war among themselves? But the election was a necessity.
We cannot have free government without elections; and if the rebellion
could force us to forego or postpone a national election, it might
fairly claim to have already conquered and ruined us. The strife of the
election is but human nature practically applied to the facts of the
case. What has occurred in this case must ever occur in similar cases.
Human nature will not change. In any future great national trial,
compared with the men of this, we shall have as weak and as strong, as
silly and as wise, as bad and as good. Let us, therefore, study the
incidents of this as philosophy to learn wisdom from, and none of them
as wrongs to be revenged. But the election, along with its incidental
and undesirable strife, has done good too. It has demonstrated that a
people's government can sustain a national election in the midst of a
great civil war. Gold is good in its place, but living, brave, patriotic
men are better than gold.
But the rebellion continues; and now that the election is over, may not
all having a common interest reunite in a common effort to save our
common country? For my own part, I have striven and shall strive to
avoid placing any obstacle in the way. So long as I have been here, I
have not willingly planted a thorn in any man's bosom. While I am deeply
sensible to the high compliment of a re-election, and duly grateful as I
trust to Almighty God for having directed my countrymen to a right
conclusion, as I think, for their own good, it adds nothing to my
satisfaction that any other man may be disappointed or pained by the
result.
May I ask those who have not differed with me, to join with me in this
same spirit towards those who have? And now let me close by asking three
hearty cheers for our brave soldiers and seamen, and their gallant and
skilful commanders.
Dear Madam, I have been shown in the files of the War Department a
statement of the Adjutant-General of Massachusetts that you are the
mother of five sons who have died gloriously on the field of battle. I
feel how weak and fruitless must be any words of mine which should
attempt to beguile you from the grief of a loss so overwhelming. But I
cannot refrain from tendering to you the consolation that may be found
in the thanks of the Republic they died to save. I pray that our
heavenly Father may assuage the anguish of your bereavement, and leave
you only the cherished memory of the loved and lost, and the solemn
pride that must be yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon the
altar of freedom.
Yours very sincerely and respectfully,ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
Please read and answer this letter as though I was not President, but
only a friend. My son, now in his twenty-second year, having graduated
at Harvard, wishes to see something of the war before it ends. I do not
wish to put him in the ranks, nor yet to give him a commission, to which
those who have already served long are better entitled, and better
qualified to hold. Could he, without embarrassment to you or detriment
to the service, go into your military family with some nominal rank, I,
and not the public, furnishing his necessary means? If no, say so
without the least hesitation, because I am as anxious and as deeply
interested that you shall not be encumbered as you can be yourself.
Fellow-countrymen, At this second appearance to take the oath of the
Presidential office, there is less occasion for an extended address than
there was at the first. Then a statement, somewhat in detail, of a
course to be pursued, seemed fitting and proper. Now, at the expiration
of four years, during which public declarations have been constantly
called forth on every point and phase of the great contest which still
absorbs the attention and engrosses the energies of the nation, little
that is new could be presented. The progress of our arms, upon which all
else chiefly depends, is as well known to the public as to myself; and
it is, I trust, reasonably satisfactory and encouraging to all. With
high hope for the future, no prediction in regard to it is ventured.
On the occasion corresponding to this four years ago, all thoughts were
anxiously directed to an impending civil war. All dreaded it,—all
sought to avert it. While the inaugural address was being delivered from
this place, devoted altogether to saving the Union without war,
insurgent agents were in the city seeking to destroy it without
war,—seeking to dissolve the Union, and divide effects, by negotiation.
Both parties deprecated war; but one of them would make war rather than
let the nation survive, and the other would accept war rather than let
it perish. And the war came.
One-eighth of the whole population were coloured slaves, not distributed
generally over the Union, but localized in the southern part of it.
These slaves constituted a peculiar and powerful interest. All knew that
this interest was, somehow, the cause of the war. To strengthen,
perpetuate, and extend this interest was the object for which the
insurgents would rend the Union, even by war; while the government
claimed no right to do more than to restrict the territorial enlargement
of it....
With malice toward none; with charity for all; with firmness in the
right, as God gives us to see the right,—let us strive on to finish the
work we are in: to bind up the nation's wounds; to care for him who
shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan; to do all
which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves,
and with all nations.
Dear Mr. Weed, Every one likes a compliment. Thank you for yours on my
little notification speech and on the recent inaugural address. I expect
the latter to wear as well as—perhaps better than—anything I have
produced; but I believe it is not immediately popular. Men are not
flattered by being shown that there has been a difference of purpose
between the Almighty and them. To deny it, however, in this case, is to
deny that there is a God governing the world. It is a truth which I
thought needed to be told, and, as whatever of humiliation there is in
it falls most directly on myself, I thought others might afford for me
to tell it.
There are but few aspects of this great war on which I have not already
expressed my views by speaking or writing. There is one—the recent
effort of "Our erring brethren," sometimes so called, to employ the
slaves in their armies. The great question with them has been, "Will the
negro fight for them?" They ought to know better than we, and doubtless
do know better than we. I may incidentally remark, that having in my
life heard many arguments—or strings of words meant to pass for
arguments—intended to show that the negro ought to be a slave,—if he
shall now really fight to keep himself a slave, it will be a far better
argument why he should remain a slave than I have ever before heard. He,
perhaps, ought to be a slave if he desires it ardently enough to fight
for it. Or, if one out of four will, for his own freedom fight to keep
the other three in slavery, he ought to be a slave for his selfish
meanness. I have always thought that all men should be free; but if any
should be slaves, it should be first those who desire it for themselves,
and secondly those who desire it for others. Whenever I hear any one
arguing for slavery, I feel a strong impulse to see it tried on him
personally.
Fellow-citizens, We meet this evening, not in sorrow but in gladness of
heart. The evacuation of Richmond and Petersburg, and the surrender of
the principal insurgent army, give the hope of a just and speedy peace,
the joyous expression of which cannot be restrained. In all this joy,
however, He from whom all blessings flow must not be forgotten. A call
for a national thanksgiving is in the course of preparation, and will be
duly promulgated. Nor must those whose harder part give us the cause for
rejoicing be overlooked. Their honours must not be parcelled out with
others. I, myself, was near the front, and had the high pleasure of
transmitting much of the good news to you; but no part of the honour for
plan or execution is mine. To General Grant, his skilful officers and
brave men, all belongs. The gallant navy stood ready, but was not in
reach to take an active part.
By these recent successes the reinauguration of the national
authority,—reconstruction,—which has had a large share of thought from
the first, is pressed much more closely upon our attention. It is
fraught with great difficulty. Unlike a case of war between independent
nations, there is no organized organ for us to treat with,—no one man
has authority to give up the rebellion for any other man. We simply must
begin with and mould from disorganized and discordant elements. Nor is
it a small additional embarrassment that we, the loyal people, differ
among ourselves as to the mode, manner, and measure of reconstruction.
As a general rule I abstain from reading the reports of attacks upon
myself, wishing not to be provoked by that to which I cannot properly
offer an answer. In spite of this precaution, however, it comes to my
knowledge that I am much censured for some supposed agency in setting up
and seeking to sustain the new State government of Louisiana.
In this I have done just so much as, and no more than, the public knows.
In the annual message of December 1863, and in the accompanying
proclamation, I presented a plan of reconstruction, as the phrase goes,
which I promised, if adopted by any State, should be acceptable to and
sustained by the executive government of the nation. I distinctly stated
that this was not the only plan which might possibly be acceptable, and
I also distinctly protested that the executive claimed no right to say
when or whether members should be admitted to seats in Congress from
such States. This plan was in advance submitted to the then Cabinet, and
approved by every member of it....
When the message of 1863, with the plan before mentioned, reached New
Orleans, General Banks wrote me that he was confident that the people,
with his military co-operation, would reconstruct substantially on that
plan. I wrote him and some of them to try it. They tried it, and the
result is known. Such has been my only agency in getting up the
Louisiana government. As to sustaining it, my promise is out, as before
stated. But as bad promises are better broken than kept, I shall treat
this as a bad promise and break it, whenever I shall be convinced that
keeping it is adverse to the public interest; but I have not yet been so
convinced. I have been shown a letter on this subject, supposed to be an
able one, in which the writer expresses regret that my mind has not
seemed to be definitely fixed upon the question whether the seceded
States, so called, are in the Union or out of it. It would perhaps add
astonishment to his regret were he to learn that since I have found
professed Union men endeavouring to answer that question, I have
purposely forborne any public expression upon it....
We all agree that the seceded States, so called, are out of their proper
practical relation with the Union, and that the sole object of the
government, civil and military, in regard to those States, is to again
get them into that proper practical relation. I believe that it is not
only possible, but in fact easier, to do this without deciding or even
considering whether these States have ever been out of the Union, than
with it. Finding themselves safely at home, it would be utterly
immaterial whether they had ever been abroad. Let us all join in doing
the acts necessary to restoring the proper practical relations between
these States and the Union, and each for ever after innocently indulge
his own opinion whether in doing the acts he brought the States from
without into the Union, or only gave them proper assistance, they never
having been out of it. The amount of constituency, so to speak, on which
the new Louisiana government rests, would be more satisfactory to all if
it contained forty thousand, or thirty thousand, or even twenty
thousand, instead of only about twelve thousand as it does. It is also
unsatisfactory to some that the elective franchise is not given to the
coloured man. I would myself prefer that it were now conferred on the
very intelligent, and on those who serve our cause as soldiers.
Still, the question is not whether the Louisiana government, as it
stands, is quite all that is desirable. The question is, will it be
wiser to take it as it is and help to improve it, or to reject and
disperse it? Can Louisiana be brought into proper practical relation
with the Union sooner by sustaining or by discarding her new State
government? Some twelve thousand voters in the heretofore slave State of
Louisiana have sworn allegiance to the Union, assumed to be the rightful
political power of the State, held elections, organized a State
government, adopted a free-State constitution, giving the benefit of
public schools equally to black and white, and empowering the
legislature to confer the elective franchise upon the coloured man.
Their legislature has already voted to ratify the constitutional
amendment recently passed by Congress, abolishing slavery throughout
the nation. These twelve thousand persons are thus fully committed to
the Union and to perpetual freedom in the State,—committed to the very
things, and nearly all the things, the nation wants,—and they ask the
nation's recognition and its assistance to make good their committal.
If we reject and spurn them, we do our utmost to disorganize and
disperse them. We, in effect, say to the white man: You are worthless or
worse; we will neither help you, nor be helped by you. To the blacks, we
say: This cup of liberty, which these, your old masters, hold to your
lips, we will dash from you, and leave you to the chances of gathering
the spilled and scattered contents in some vague and undefined when,
where, and how. If this course, discouraging and paralyzing both white
and black, has any tendency to bring Louisiana into proper, practical
relations with the Union, I have so far been unable to perceive it. If,
on the contrary, we recognize and sustain the new government of
Louisiana, the converse of all this is made true. We encourage the
hearts and nerve the arms of twelve thousand to adhere to their work,
and argue for it, and proselyte for it, and fight for it, and feed it,
and grow it, and ripen it to a complete success. The coloured man, too,
in seeing all united for him, is inspired with vigilance, and energy,
and daring to the same end. Grant that he desires the elective
franchise, will he not attain it sooner by saving the already advanced
steps towards it, than by running backward over them?
... I repeat the question, Can Louisiana be brought into proper
practical relation with the Union sooner by sustaining or by discarding
her new State government?
... What has been said of Louisiana will apply generally to other
States. And yet so great peculiarities pertain to each State, and such
important and sudden changes occur in the same State, and withal so new
and unprecedented is the whole case, that no exclusive and inflexible
plan can safely be prescribed as to details and collaterals. Such
exclusive and inflexible plan would surely become a new entanglement.
Important principles may and must be inflexible. In the present
situation, as the phrase goes, it may be my duty to make some new
announcement to the people of the South. I am considering, and shall not
fail to act when satisfied that action will be proper.
They gathered around the President, ran ahead, hovered about the flanks
of the little company, and hung like a dark cloud upon the rear. Men,
women and children joined the constantly-increasing throng. They came
from all the by-streets, running in breathless haste, shouting and
hallooing, and dancing with delight. The men threw up their hats, the
women waved their bonnets and handkerchiefs, clapped their hands, and
sang, "Glory to God! glory, glory!" rendering all the praise to God, who
had heard their wailings in the past, their moanings for wives,
husbands, children, and friends sold out of their sight; had given them
freedom, and after long years of waiting had permitted them thus
unexpectedly to behold the face of their great benefactor.
"I thank you, dear Jesus, that I behold President Linkum!" was the
exclamation of a woman who stood upon the threshold of her humble home,
and with streaming eyes and clasped hands gave thanks aloud to the
Saviour of men.
Another, more demonstrative in her joy, was jumping and striking her
hands with all her might, crying, "Bless de Lord! Bless de Lord! Bless
de Lord!" as if there could be no end to her thanksgiving.
The air rang with a tumultuous chorus of voices. The street became
almost impassable on account of the increasing multitude, till soldiers
were summoned to clear the way....
The walk was long, and the President halted a moment to rest. "May de
good Lord bless you, President Linkum!" said an old negro, removing his
hat and bowing, with tears of joy rolling down his cheeks. The President
removed his own hat, and bowed in silence; but it was a bow which upset
the forms, laws, customs, and ceremonies of centuries. It was a
death-shock to chivalry and a mortal wound to caste. "Recognize a
nigger! Fough!" A woman in an adjoining house beheld it, and turned from
the scene in unspeakable disgust.
(The following nine anecdotes were related by Frank B. Carpenter,
     the painter, who, while executing his picture of the first reading
     in cabinet council of the Emancipation Proclamation, had the
     freedom of Mr. Lincoln's private office and saw much of the
     President while he posed, and whose relations with him became of an
     intimate character.)
A distinguished citizen of Ohio had an appointment with the President
one evening at six o'clock. As he entered the vestibule of the White
House, his attention was attracted by a poorly-clad young woman who was
violently sobbing. He asked her the cause of her distress. She said she
had been ordered away by the servants after vainly waiting many hours to
see the President about her only brother, who had been condemned to
death. Her story was this:—She and her brother were foreigners, and
orphans. They had been in this country several years. Her brother
enlisted in the army, but, through bad influences, was induced to
desert. He was captured, tried and sentenced to be shot—the old story.
The poor girl had obtained the signatures of some persons who had
formerly known him, to a petition for a pardon, and alone had come to
Washington to lay the case before the President. Thronged as the
waiting-rooms always were, she had passed the long hours of two days
trying in vain to get an audience, and had at length been ordered away.
The gentleman's feelings were touched. He said to her that he had come
to see the President, but did not know asheshould succeed. He told
her, however, to follow him upstairs, and he would see what could be
done for her. Just before reaching the door, Mr. Lincoln came out, and
meeting his friend said good-humouredly, "Are you not ahead of time?"
The gentleman showed him his watch, with the hand upon the hour of six.
"Well," returned Mr. Lincoln, "I have been so busy to-day that I have
not had time to get a lunch. Go in, and sit down; I will be back
directly."
The gentleman made the young woman accompany him into the office, and,
when they were seated, said to her, "Now, my good girl, I want you to
muster all the courage you have in the world. When the President comes
back, he will sit down in that arm-chair. I shall get up to speak to
him, and as I do so you must force yourself between us, and insist upon
the examination of your papers, telling him it is a case of life and
death, and admits of no delay." These instructions were carried out to
the letter. Mr. Lincoln was at first somewhat surprised at the apparent
forwardness of the young woman, but observing her distressed appearance,
he ceased conversation with his friend, and commenced an examination of
the document she had placed in his hands. Glancing from it to the face
of the petitioner, whose tears had broken forth afresh, he studied its
expression for a moment, and then his eye fell upon her scanty but neat
dress. Instantly his face lighted up. "My poor girl," said he, "you have
come here with no governor, or senator, or member of Congress, to plead
your cause. You seem honest and truthful;and you don't wear
hoops—and I will be whipped but I will pardon your brother."
One night Schuyler Colfax left all other business to ask him to respite
the son of a constituent, who was sentenced to be shot, at Davenport,
for desertion. He heard the story with his usual patience, though he was
wearied out with incessant calls, and anxious for rest, and then
replied:—"Some of our generals complain that I impair discipline and
subordination in the army by my pardons and respites, but it makes me
rested, after a hard day's work, if I can find some good excuse for
saving a man's life, and I go to bed happy as I think how joyous the
signing of my name will make him and his family and his friends." And
with a happy smile beaming over that care-furrowed face, he signed that
name that saved that life.
The simplicity and absence of all ostentation on the part of Mr.
Lincoln, is well illustrated by an incident which occurred on the
occasion of a visit he made to Commodore Porter, at Fortress Monroe.
Noticing that the banks of the river were dotted with flowers, he said:
"Commodore, Tad (the pet name for his youngest son, who had accompanied
him on the excursion) is very fond of flowers; won't you let a couple of
men take a boat and go with him for an hour or two, along the banks of
the river, and gather the flowers?" Look at this picture, and then
endeavour to imagine the head of a European nation making a similar
request, in this humble way, of one of his subordinates!
One day I took a couple of friends from New York upstairs, who wished to
be introduced to the President. It was after the hour for business
calls, and we found him alone, and, foronce, at leisure. Soon after
the introduction, one of my friends took occasion to indorse, very
decidedly, the President's Amnesty Proclamation, which had been severely
censured by many friends of the Administration. Mr. S——'s approval
touched Mr. Lincoln. He said, with a great deal of emphasis, and with an
expression of countenance I shall never forget: "When a man is sincerelypenitentfor his misdeeds, and gives satisfactory evidence of the
same, he can safely be pardoned, and there is no exception to the rule!"
At the White House one day some gentlemen were present from the West,
excited and troubled about the commissions and omissions of the
Administration. The President heard them patiently, and then replied:
"Gentlemen, suppose all the property you were worth was in gold, and you
had put it in the hands of Blondin to carry across the Niagara River on
a rope, would you shake the cable, or keep shouting out to him,
'Blondin, stand up a little straighter—Blondin, stoop a little more—go
a little faster—lean a little more to the north—lean a little more to
the south?' No, you would hold your breath as well as your tongue, and
keep your hands off until he was safe over. The Government are carrying
an immense weight. Untold treasures are in their hands. They are doing
the very best they can. Don't badger them. Keep silence, and we'll get
you safe across."
During a public "reception," a farmer, from one of the border counties
of Virginia, told the President that the Union soldiers, in passing his
farm, had helped themselves not only to hay, but his horse, and he hoped
the President would urge the proper officer to consider his claim
immediately.
Mr. Lincoln said that this reminded him of an old acquaintance of his,
"Jack Chase," who used to be a lumberman on the Illinois, a steady,
sober man, and the best raftsman on the river. It was quite a trick,
twenty-five years ago, to take the logs over the rapids; but he was
skilful with a raft, and always kept her straight in the channel.
Finally a steamer was put on, and Jack was made captain of her. He
always used to take the wheel going through the rapids. One day when the
boat was plunging and wallowing along the boiling current, and Jack's
utmost vigilance was being exercised to keep her in the narrow channel,
a boy pulled his coat-tail, and hailed him with: "Say, Mister Captain! I
wish you would just stop your boat a minute—I've lost my apple
overboard!"
The President was once speaking about an attack made on him by the
Committee on the Conduct of the War for a certain alleged blunder, or
something worse, in the Southwest—the matter involved being one which
had fallen directly under the observation of the officer to whom he was
talking, who possessed official evidence completely upsetting all the
conclusions of the Committee.
"Might it not be well for me," queried the officer, "to set this matter
right in a letter to some paper, stating the facts as they actually
transpired?"
"Oh, no," replied the President, "at least, not now. If I were to try to
read, much less answer, all the attacks made on me, this shop might as
well be closed for any other business. I do the very best I know
how—the very best I can; and I mean to keep doing so until the end. If
the end brings me out all right, what is said against me won't amount to
anything. If the end brings me out wrong, ten angels swearing I was
right would make no difference."
On the occasion when the telegram from Cumberland Gap reached Mr.
Lincoln that "firing was heard in the direction of Knoxville," he
remarked that he was "glad of it." Some person present, who had the
perils of Burnside's position uppermost in his mind, could, not seewhyMr. Lincoln should begladof it, and so expressed himself.
"Why, you see," responded the President, "it reminds me of Mistress
Sallie Ward, a neighbour of mine, who had a very large family.
Occasionally one of her numerous progeny would be heard crying in some
out-of-the-way place, upon which Mrs. Ward would exclaim, 'There's one
of my children that isn't dead yet!'"
The evening before I left Washington an incident occurred, illustrating
very perfectly the character of the man. For two days my large painting
had been on exhibition, upon its completion, in the East Room, which had
been thronged with visitors. Late in the afternoon of the second day,
the "black-horse cavalry" escort drew up as usual in front of the
portico, preparatory to the President's leaving for the "Soldiers'
Home," where he spent the midsummer nights. While the carriage was
waiting, I looked around for him, wishing to say a farewell word,
knowing that I should have no other opportunity. Presently I saw him
standing halfway between the portico and the gateway leading to the War
Department, leaning against the iron fence—one arm thrown over the
railing, and one foot on the stone coping which supports it, evidently
having been intercepted, on his way in from the War Department, by a
plain-looking man, who was giving him, very diffidently, an account of a
difficulty which he had been unable to have rectified. While waiting, I
walked out leisurely to the President's side. He said very little to the
man, but was intently studying the expression of his face while he was
narrating his trouble. When he had finished, Mr. Lincoln said to him,
"Have you a blank card?" The man searched his pockets, but finding none,
a gentleman standing near, who had overheard the question, came forward,
and said, "Here is one, Mr. President." Several persons had, in the
meantime, gathered around. Taking the card and a pencil, Mr. Lincoln
sat down upon the stone coping, which is not more than five or six
inches above the pavement, presenting almost the appearance of sitting
upon the pavement itself, and wrote an order upon the card to the proper
official to "examine this man's case." While writing this, I observed
several persons passing down the promenade, smiling at each other, at
what I presume they thought the undignified appearance of the Head of
the Nation, who, however, seemed utterly unconscious, either of any
impropriety in the action, or of attracting any attention. To me it was
not only a touching picture of the native goodness of the man, but of
innate nobility of character, exemplified not so much by a disregard of
conventionalities, as in unconsciousness that therecouldbe any
breach of etiquette, or dignity, in the manner of an honest attempt to
serve, or secure justice to a citizen of the Republic, however humble he
may be.

=== BENJAMIN HARRISON SPEECHES ===
Title: Speeches of Benjamin Harrison, Twenty-third President of the United States
Release date: January 16, 2014 [eBook #44682]Most recently updated: October 24, 2024
Credits: Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Norbert Müller and theOnline Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net
A COMPLETE COLLECTION OF HISPUBLIC ADDRESSES FROM FEBRUARY,1888, TO FEBRUARY, 1892,CHRO­NO­LOGICALLY CLASSI­FIED;EM­BRACING ALL HISCAM­PAIGN SPEECHES, LET­TEROF AC­CEP­TANCE, IN­AU­GU­RALAD­DRESS, AND THENUME­ROUS SPEECHESDELIV­ERED DURINGHIS SEV­ER­AL TOURS;ALSO EXTRACTSFROM HISMESSAGES TOCON­GRESS
NEW YORKUNITED STATES BOOK COMPANYSUCCESSORS TOJOHN W. LOVELL COMPANY142 TO 150 WORTH STREET
Itis not the purpose of this book to present a few selections
of oratory, laboriously prepared and polished, or
occasional flashes of brilliant thought. From such efforts,
prepared, perhaps, after days of study and repeated revision,
one can form but an imperfect idea of their author.
Such a compilation might show the highest conceptions of
the man, and evidence a wide range of thought and a surpassing
grandeur of expression; but it would be but a
poor mirror of the man himself in his daily life.
It is due to the people that the largest opportunity be
given them to observe the character of their public servants,
to come into closest touch with their daily thoughts,
and to know them as they are—not when prepared for
special occasions, but day after day and all the time. It
is with this view that this collection of the speeches of
President Harrison is offered to the public. It is a series
of instantaneous photographs that have caught him unawares.
The studied pose is wanting, but the pictures are
true to life.
There are included the letter of acceptance, the inaugural
address, the letter to the commercial congress, extracts
from his last annual message to Congress, his patriotic
message on the Chilian affair, and a few carefully
prepared speeches, among them his notable addresses at the
banquet of the Michigan Club, February 22, 1888, and before
the Marquette Club at Chicago, March 20, the same year;
also his celebrated speech at Galveston, in April last. All
these are among the best models of statesmanlike thought[4]and concise, forcible, and elegant expression. With these
exceptions, the speeches presented were delivered during
the presidential campaign of 1888, often four or five in a
day, to visiting delegations of citizens, representing every
occupation and interest, and during his tours of 1890 and
1891, when he often spoke eight or ten times a day from
the platform of his car.
If these speeches contained no other merit, they would
be remarkable in the fact that, while delivered during
the excitement of a political campaign and in the hurry
of wayside pauses in a journey by railroad, they contain
not one carelessly spoken word that can detract from their
dignity, or, by any possible distortion of language, be
turned against their author by his political opponents.
With no opportunity for elaborately studied phrases, he
did not utter a word that could be sneered at as weak or
commonplace. This fact is all the more noteworthy when
we recall the dismal failures that have been made by
others under like circumstances.
A spirit of exalted patriotism and broad statesmanship
is apparent in every line; and notwithstanding the malignity
of the partisan assaults that were made upon him,
no words of bitterness—only terms of generous tolerance—characterize
his allusions to his political opponents.
With a single notable exception, no thought of sameness
or repetition is ever suggested. That exception was
the central thought and vital principle that was at stake
in the campaign. One marvels at his versatility in adapting
himself to every occasion, whether he was addressing
a delegation of miners, of comrades in war, or of children
from the public schools; we admire the lofty thoughts and
the delicious humor; but while he might soften in tender,
playful greeting of children, or live again with his comrades
the old life of tent and field, he never for one moment
forgot the great principle whose banner he had been
chosen to uphold. Protection of American industry was[5]always his foremost thought—and how well he presented
it! What an example to the politician who seeks by
evasion or silence to avoid the questions at issue!
The book is therefore presented with the gratifying belief
that a valuable service has been rendered in collecting
these speeches and putting them in an enduring form,
not only because they give the American people the most
lifelike mental portrait of their Chief Magistrate, but because
they are a valuable contribution to American literature.
In order to the best understanding and appreciation of
an address, it is often necessary to know the circumstances
in which it was delivered. Especially is this true when
the address was made, as many of these were, to some
particular organization or class of citizens or at the celebration
of some important event. For this reason, as well
as for their important historical value, an account is given
of the occasion of each speech, including, as far as they
could be learned, the names of the more distinguished persons
who were present and took part in the exercises.
Benjamin Harrison, twenty-third President of the United
States, was born Tuesday, August 20, 1833, at North Bend,
Hamilton County, Ohio. He is the second son of the late John
Scott and Elizabeth Irwin Harrison.
His father—the third son of President William Henry Harrison
and Anna Symmes—was born at Vincennes, Indiana, was twice
elected to Congress as a Democrat, from the Cincinnati district,
and died in 1878.
General William Henry Harrison, ninth President of the United
States, was the third son of a famous signer of the Declaration of
Independence—Benjamin Harrison, of Virginia, and his wife Elizabeth
Bassett. This Benjamin Harrison, "the signer," was one of
the first seven delegates from Virginia to the Continental Congress.
He reported the resolution for independence, was Speaker of the
House of Burgesses, and was thrice elected Governor of Virginia,
dying in 1791; he was the eldest son of Benjamin and Anna Carter
Harrison, both of whom were descended from ancestors distinguished
for their high character and their services to the colony
of Virginia.
Ben Harrison's boyhood was passed upon his father's farm in
Ohio. At the age of 14, with his elder brother Irwin, he attended
Farmer's College at Cincinnati, preparatory to entering Miami University
at Oxford, Ohio, from which institution he graduated in
1852.
He studied law in the office of Judge Belamy Storer at Cincinnati,
and in March, 1854—with his bride, Miss Caroline W. Scott,
to whom he was wedded October 20, 1853—he located at Indianapolis
and began the practice of the law.
In 1860 he was elected reporter of the decisions of the Supreme
Court of Indiana, as a Republican, receiving 9,688 majority.
In July, 1862, he was commissioned by Gov. Oliver P. Morton
as second lieutenant, and raised Company A of the Seventieth
Indiana Volunteer Infantry, was commissioned captain, and on the
organization of the regiment was commissioned colonel. In August
his regiment entered the field and became a part of the 1st
Brigade of the 1st Division of the 20th Army Corps, Gen. W. T.
Ward, of Kentucky, brigade commander. At the battle of Resaca,
Sunday, May 15, 1864, the Seventieth Regiment led the brigade in
a gallant charge, and its colonel signally distinguished himself,
being among the first to scale the bloody parapet. He actively
participated in the engagements at Cassville, New Hope Church,
Gilgal Church, Kulps Hill, and Kenesaw. Following that great[8]captain in the Atlanta campaign, initiatory to his famous march
to the sea, Colonel Harrison at the battle of Peach Tree Creek, July 20,
1864, in the crisis of the fight, without awaiting orders, seized an
important position and successfully resisted, at great loss, the terrific
assaults of a large detachment of Hood's army. For this
brilliant achievement, upon the recommendation of Major-General
Joe Hooker, he was brevetted in March, 1865, by President Lincoln,
a brigadier-general, to date from January 23, 1865.
In October, 1864, while at the front, he was re-elected, by 19,713
majority, reporter of the Supreme Court, which office he had lost
by accepting a commission in the army. After four years as reporter
he resumed his law practice, forming a partnership with
Albert G. Porter and W. P. Fishback. About 1870 Mr. Fishback retired,
and the firm became Porter, Harrison & Hines; upon Governor
Porter's retirement W. H. H. Miller took his place, and in
1883 Mr. Hines retired, and, John B. Elam coming in, the firm became
Harrison, Miller & Elam.
In 1876 Hon. Godlove S. Orth was nominated as Republican candidate
for Governor of Indiana, but pending the canvass he unexpectedly
withdrew. In this emergency, during General Harrison's
absence on a trip to Lake Superior, the Central Committee substituted
his name at the head of the ticket. Undertaking the canvass
despite adverse conditions, he was defeated by Hon. James D.
Williams—"Blue Jeans"—by a plurality of 5,084 votes.
In 1878 he was chosen chairman of the Republican State Convention.
In 1879 he was appointed by President Hayes a member of the
Mississippi River Commission.
In 1880 he was chairman of the delegation from Indiana to the
National Convention, and with his colleagues cast 34 consecutive
ballots for James G. Blaine in that historic contest.
President Garfield tendered him any position but one in his
Cabinet, but the high honor was declined.
In January, 1881, he was elected United States Senator—the
unanimous choice of his party—to succeed Joseph E. McDonald,
and served six years to March 3, 1887.
In 1884 he again represented his State as delegate at large to the
National Convention.
January, 1887, he was a second time the unanimous choice of
his party for United States Senator, but after a protracted and exciting
contest was defeated on the sixteenth joint ballot, upon
party lines, by 2 majority.
June 25, 1888, he was nominated at Chicago by the Republican
National Convention for President, on the eighth ballot, receiving
544 votes against 118 for John Sherman, 100 for Russell A. Alger,
and 59 for Walter Q. Gresham. He was chosen President by 233
electoral votes against 168 for Grover Cleveland. The popular vote
resulted: 5,536,242 (48.63 per cent.) for the Democratic ticket,
5,440,708 (47.83 per cent.) for the Republican ticket, 246,876 (2.16
per cent.) for the Prohibition, 146,836 (1.27 per cent.) for the
Union Labor, and 7,777 (0.11 per cent.) scattering.
TheMichigan Club, the largest and most influential
political organization in the State, held its third annual
banquet at the Detroit Rink on Washington's Birthday,
1888.
The officers of the club were:President, Clarence A.
Black;Vice-President, William H. Elliott;Secretary,
Fred. E. Farnsworth;Treasurer, Frederick Woolfenden.
Senator Thomas W. Palmer was president of the evening;
the vice-presidents were: Hons. F. B. Stockbridge,
C. G. Luce, J. H. Macdonald, Austin Blair, H. P. Baldwin,
David H. Jerome, R. A. Alger, O. D. Conger, Chas.
D. Long, E. P. Allen, James O'Donnell, J. C. Burrows,
M. S. Brewer, S. M. Cutcheon, Henry W. Seymour, Benj.
F. Graves, Isaac Marston, Edward S. Lacy, John T. Rich,
O. L. Spaulding, Geo. W. Webber, Geo. Willard, E. W.
Keightley, R. G. Horr, E. O. Grosvenor, James Birney,
C. E. Ellsworth, D. P. Markey.
The distinguished guests and speakers of the evening
from other States were: General Benjamin Harrison, Ind.;
General Joseph R. Hawley, Conn.; Hon. William McKinley,
Jr., Ohio; Hon. Joseph G. Cannon, Hon. John
F. Finerty, and General Green B. Raum, Ill.; Hon. L.
E. McComas, Md.; and Hon. James P. Foster, N. Y.
General Harrison responded to the sentiment, "Washington,
the republican. The guarantee of the Constitu[10]tion
that the State shall have a republican form of government
is only executed when the majority in the States
are allowed to vote and have their ballots counted."
His speech attracted widespread attention at the time,
and is considered one of his greatest. One expression
therein—viz.: "I am a dead statesman, but a living and
rejuvenated Republican"—went broadcast over the land
and became one of the keynotes of the campaign.
Senator Harrison made the first reference of the evening
to the name of "Chandler." It was talismanic;
instantly a great wave of applause swept over the banquet-hall,
and thenceforth the speaker carried his hearers
with him.
Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Michigan Club—I feel that I
am at some disadvantage here to-night by reason of the fact that I
did not approach Detroit from the direction of Washington city.
I am a dead statesman ["No! No!"]; but I am a living and rejuvenated
Republican. I have the pleasure to-night, for the first time
in my life, of addressing an audience of Michigan Republicans.
Your invitations in the past have been frequent and urgent, but I
have always felt that you knew how to do your own work, that
we could trust the stalwart Republicans of this magnificent State
to hold this key of the lakes against all comers. I am not here
to-night in the expectation that I shall be able to help you by any
suggestion, or even to kindle into greater earnestness that zeal and
interest in Republican principles which your presence here to-night
so well attests. I am here rather to be helped myself, to bathe
my soul in this high atmosphere of patriotism and pure Republicanism
[applause] by spending a little season in the presence of
those who loved and honored and followed the Cromwell of the
Republican party, Zachariah Chandler. [Tremendous applause.]
The sentiment which has been assigned me to-night—"Washington,
the republican; a free and equal ballot the only guarantee of
the Nation's security and perpetuity"—is one that was supported
with a boldness of utterance, with a defiance that was unexcelled
by any leader, by Zachariah Chandler always and everywhere.
[Applause.] As Republicans we are fortunate, as has been suggested,
in the fact that there is nothing in the history of our
party, nothing in the principles that we advocate, to make it im[11]possible
for us to gather and to celebrate the birthday of any
American who honored or defended his country. [Cheers.] We
could even unite with our Democratic friends in celebrating the
birthday of St. Jackson, because we enter into fellowship with him
when we read his story of how by proclamation he put down
nullification in South Carolina. [Applause.] We could meet with
them to celebrate the birthday of Thomas Jefferson; because there
is no note in the immortal Declaration or in the Constitution of
our country that is out of harmony with Republicanism. [Cheers.]
But our Democratic friends are under limitation. They have a
short calendar of sense, and they must omit from the history of
those whose names are on their calendar the best achievements of
their lives. I do not know what the party is preserved for. Its
history reminds me of the boulder in the stream of progress, impeding
and resisting its onward flow and moving only by the force
that it resists.
I want to read a very brief extract from a most notable paper—one
that was to-day in the Senate at Washington read from the
desk by its presiding officer—the "Farewell Address of Washington;"
and while it is true that I cannot quote or find in the
writings of Washington anything specifically referring to ballot-box
fraud, to tissue ballots, to intimidation, to forged tally-sheets
[cheers], for the reason that these things had not come in his day
to disturb the administration of the Government, yet in the comprehensiveness
of the words he uttered, like the comprehensive
declarations of the Holy Book, we may find admonition and guidance,
and even with reference to a condition of things that his pure
mind could have never contemplated. Washington said: "Liberty
is indeed little less than a name where the Government is too
feeble to withstand the enterprises of factions, to confine each
member of society within the limits prescribed by the law, and to
maintain all in the secure and tranquil enjoyment of the rights of
persons and property." If I had read that to a Democratic meeting
they would have suspected that it was an extract from some Republican
speech. [Laughter.] My countrymen, this Government is
that which I love to think of as my country; for not acres, or
railroads, or farm products, or bulk meats, or Wall Street, or all
combined, are the country that I love. It is the institution, the
form of government, the frame of civil society, for which that flag
stands, and which we love to-day. [Applause.] It is what Mr.
Lincoln so tersely, yet so felicitously, described as a government
of the people, by the people, and for the people; a government of
the people, because they instituted it—the Constitution reads,[12]"We, the people, have ordained;" by the people, because it is
in all its departments administered by them; for the people, because
it states as its object of supreme attainment the happiness,
security and peace of the people that dwell under it. [Applause.]
The bottom principle—sometimes it is called a corner-stone,
sometimes the foundation of our structure of government—is the
principle of control by the majority. It is more than the corner-stone
or foundation. This structure is a monolith, one from foundation
to apex, and that monolith stands for and is this principle
of government by majorities, legally ascertained by constitutional
methods. Everything else about our government is appendage, it
is ornamentation. This is the monolithic column that was reared
by Washington and his associates. For this the War of the Revolution
was fought, for this and its more perfect security the Constitution
was formed; for this the War of the Rebellion was fought;
and when this principle perishes the structure which Washington
and his compatriots reared is dishonored in the dust. The equality
of the ballot demands that our apportionments in the States for
legislative and congressional purposes shall be so adjusted that
there shall be equality in the influence and the power of every
elector, so that it shall not be true anywhere that one man counts
two or one and a half and some other man counts only one half.
But some one says that is fundamental. All men accept this
truth. Not quite. My countrymen, we are confronted by this
condition of things in America to-day; a government by the
majority, expressed by an equal and a free ballot, is not only
threatened, but it has been overturned. Why is it to-day that
we have legislation threatening the industries of this country?
Why is it that the paralyzing shadow of free trade falls upon the
manufactures and upon the homes of our laboring classes? It is
because the laboring vote in the Southern States is suppressed.
There would be no question about the security of these principles
so long established by law, so eloquently set forth by my friend
from Connecticut, but for the fact that the workingmen of the
South have been deprived of their influence in choosing representatives
at Washington.
But some timid soul is alarmed at the suggestion. He says we
are endeavoring to rake over the coals of an extinct strife, to see if
we may not find some ember in which there is yet sufficient vitality
to rekindle the strife. Some man says you are actuated by
unfriendly feelings toward the South, you want to fight the war
over again, you are flaunting the bloody shirt. My countrymen,
those epithets and that talk never have any terrors for me.[13][Applause.] I do not want to fight the war over again, and I am
sure no Northern soldier—and there must be many here of those
gallant Michigan regiments, some of which I had the pleasure
during the war of seeing in action—not one of these that wishes to
renew that strife or fight the war over again. Not one of this
great assemblage of Republicans who listen to me to-night wishes
ill to the South. If it were left to us here to-night the streams of
her prosperity would be full. We would gladly hear of her reviving
and stimulated industry. We gladly hear of increasing wealth in
those States of the South. We wish them to share in the onward
and upward movement of a great people. It is not a question of
the war, it is not a question of the States between '61 and '65, at
all, that I am talking about to-night. It is what they have been
since '65. It is what they did in '84, when a President was to be
chosen for this country.
Our controversy is not one of the past; it is of the present. It
has relation to that which will be done next November, when our
people are again called to choose a President. What is it we ask?
Simply that the South live up to the terms of the surrender at
Appomattox. When that great chieftain received the surrender of
the army of Northern Virginia, when those who had for four years
confronted us in battle stacked arms in total surrender, the terms
were simply these: "You shall go to your homes and shall be there
unmolested so long as you obey the laws in force where you reside."
That is the sum of our demand. We ask nothing more of the
South to-night than that they shall cease to use this recovered
citizenship which they had forfeited by rebellion to oppress and
disfranchise those who equally with themselves under the Constitution
are entitled to vote—that and nothing more.
I do not need to enter into details. The truth to-day is that the
colored Republican vote of the South, and with it and by consequence
the white Republican vote of the South, is deprived of all
effective influence in the administration of this Government. The
additional power given by the colored population of the South in
the Electoral College and in Congress was more than enough to
turn the last election for President, and more than enough to
reverse—yes, largely more than reverse—the present Democratic
majority of the House of Representatives. Have we not the spirit
to insist that everywhere north and south in this country of ours
no man shall be deprived of his ballot by reason of his politics?
There is not in all this land a place where any rebel soldier is subject
to any restraint or is denied the fullest exercise of the elective
franchise. Shall we not insist that what is true of those who[14]fought to destroy the country shall be true of every man who
fought for it, or loved it, like the black man of the South did
[applause]—that to belong to Abraham Lincoln's party shall be
respectable and reputable everywhere in America? [Cheers.]
But this is not simply a Southern question. It has come to be a
national question, for not only is the Republican vote suppressed
in the South, but I ask you to turn your eyes to as fair and prosperous
a territory as ever sat at the door of the Federal Union
asking admission to the sisterhood of the States. See yonder in
the northwest Dakota, the child of all these States, with 500,000
loyal, intelligent, law-abiding, prosperous American citizens
robbed to-day of all participation in the affairs of this Nation.
The hospitable door which has always opened to territories seeking
admission is insolently closed in her face—and why? Simply
because the predominating sentiment in the Territory of Dakota is
Republican—that and nothing more. And that is not all. This
question of a free, honest ballot has crossed the Ohio River. The
overspill of these Southern frauds has reached Ohio and Indiana
and Illinois, indicating to my mind a national conspiracy, having
its centre and most potent influence in the Southern States, but
reaching out into Ohio, Indiana and Illinois in its attempt by
frauds upon the ballot-box to possess the Senate of the United
States. Go down to Cincinnati in a recent election and look at
the election returns, shamelessly, scandalously manipulated to
return members to the Senate and House of Ohio, in order that
that grand champion of Republican principles, John Sherman,
might be defeated. Go yonder with me to Chicago and look into
those frauds upon the ballot—devised, executed in furtherance of
the same iniquitous scheme, intended to defeat the re-election of
that gallant soldier, that fearless defender of Republican principles,
John A. Logan of Illinois. [Great cheering.]
And these people have even invaded Indiana. At the last election
in my own State, first by gerrymander, they disturbed and utterly
destroyed the equality of suffrage in that State; it was so framed
as to give the Democratic party a majority of 50 on joint ballot;
and Indiana gave a Republican majority on members of the
Legislature of 10,000, and yet they claim to hold the Legislature.
And that is not all. Then, when gerrymander had failed, they
introduced the eraser to help it out [laughter]; scratched our tally-sheets,
shamelessly transferred ballots from Republican to Democratic
candidates. How are we going to deal with these fellows?
What is the remedy? As to the Southern aspect of this question,
I have first to suggest that it is in the power of the free people of[15]the North, those who love the Constitution and a free and equal
ballot, those who, while claiming this high privilege for themselves,
will deny it to no other man, to welcome a President who
shall not come into office, into the enjoyment of the usufruct of
these crimes, against the ballot [applause]; that will be great gain.
And then we should aim to place in the Southern States, in every
office exercising federal authority, men whose local influence will
be against these frauds, instead of such men as the district attorney
appointed by Mr. Cleveland, who in this recent outrage upon the
ballot in Jackson, Miss., was found among the most active conspirators,
when, by public resolution of a Democratic committee,
Republicans of that city were warned away from the polls. Then
again we shall keep ourselves free from all partisanship if we
lift our voice steadily and constantly in protest against these
offences.
There is vast power in a protest. Public opinion is the most
potent monarch this world knows to-day. Czars tremble in its
presence, and we may bring to bear upon this question a public
sentiment, by bold and fearless denunciation of it, that will do a
great deal towards correcting it. Why, my countrymen, we meet
now and then with these Irish-Americans and lift our voices in
denunciations of the wrongs which England is perpetrating upon
Ireland. [Applause.] We do not elect any Members of Parliament,
but the voice of free America protesting against these centuries
of wrongs has had a most potent influence in creating, stimulating
and sustaining the liberal policy of William E. Gladstone
and his associates. [Great applause.] Cannot we do as much for
oppressed Americans? Can we not make our appeal to these Irish-American
citizens who appeal to us in behalf of their oppressed
fellow-countrymen to rally with us in this crusade against election
frauds and intimidation in the country that they have made their
own? [Applause.]
There may be legislative remedies in sight when we can once
again possess both branches of the national Congress and have an
executive at Washington who has not been created by these crimes
against the ballot. [Applause.] Whatever they are, we will seek
them out and put them into force—not in a spirit of enmity
against the men who fought against us—forgetting the war, but
only insisting that now, nearly a quarter of a century after it is
over, a free ballot shall not be denied to Republicans in these
States where rebels have been rehabilitated with a full citizenship.
[Applause.] Every question waits the settlement of this. The
tariff question would be settled already if the 1,000,000 of black[16]laborers in the South had their due representation in the House of
Representatives.
And my soldier friends, interested that liberal provisions should
be made for the care of the disabled soldier—are they willing that
this question should be settled without the presence in the House of
Representatives of the power and influence of those faithful black
men in the South who were always their friends? [Applause.]
The dependent pension bill would pass over the President's veto
if these black friends of the Union soldier had their fair representation
in Congress. [Applause.] It is the dominant question at
the foundation of our Government, in its dominating influence
embracing all others, because it involves the question of a free and
fair tribunal to which every question shall be submitted for
arbitrament and final determination. Therefore, I would here, as
we shall in Indiana, lift up our protest against these wrongs which
are committed in the name of democracy, lift high our demand,
and utter it with resolution, that it shall no longer be true that anywhere
in this country men are disfranchised for opinion's sake.
I believe there are indications that this power is taking hold of
the North. Self-respect calls upon us. Does some devotee at the
shrine of Mammon say it will disturb the public pulse? Do we
hear from New York and her markets of trade that it is a disturbing
question and we must not broach it? I beg our friends, and
those who thus speak, to recollect that there is no peace, that there
can be no security for commerce, no security for the perpetuation
of our Government, except by the establishment of justice the
country over. [Great applause.]
Onthe evening of March 20, 1888, General Harrison
was the honored guest of the Marquette Club of Chicago—one
of the leading social and political organizations
of that great city—at their second annual banquet, given
at the Grand Pacific Hotel.
The officers of the club for that year were: George V.
Lauman,President; William H. Johnson,First Vice-President;
Hubert D. Crocker,Second Vice-President;[17]Charles U. Gordon,Secretary; Will Sheldon Gilbert,Treasurer.
The Banquet Committee and Committee of Reception for
the occasion comprised the following prominent members:
James S. Moore, Frederick G. Laird, LeRoy T. Steward,
Wm. H. Johnson, James E. Rogers, F. W. C. Hayes,
Henry T. Smith, Harry J. Jones, Chas. S. Norton, Irving
L. Gould, T. A. Broadbent, Jas. Rood, Jr., Wm. A.
Paulsen, T. M. Garrett, Geo. W. Keehn, Harry P. Finney,
C. B. Niblock, Wm. A. Lamson, S. E. Magill,
R. D. Wardwell, Fred. G. McNally.
President Lauman was toastmaster, and opened the banquet
with an address of welcome to Senator Harrison.
The other speakers of the evening were Edward J. Judd,
Theodore Brentano, Hon. Thomas C. MacMillan, Hon.
John S. Runnells, Newton Wyeth, Mayor Roche and President
Tracy of the State League of Republican Clubs.
Amid hearty applause General Harrison rose to respond
to the toast, "The Republican Party." He spoke as follows:
Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Marquette Club—I am under
an obligation that I shall not soon forget in having been permitted
by your courtesy to sit at your table to-night and to listen to the
eloquent words which have fallen from the lips of those speakers
who have preceded me. I count it a privilege to spend an evening
with so many young Republicans. There seems to be a fitness in
the association of young men with the Republican party. The
Republican party is a young party. I have not yet begun to call
myself an old man, and yet there is no older Republican in the
United States than I am. My first presidential vote was given for
the first presidential candidate of the Republican party, and I have
supported with enthusiasm every successor of Frémont, including
that matchless statesman who claimed our suffrages in 1884. We
cannot match ages with the Democratic party any more than that
party can match achievements with us. It has lived longer, but to
less purpose. "Moss-backed" cannot be predicated of a Republican.
Our Democratic friends have a monopoly of that distinction, and
it is one of the few distinguished monopolies that they enjoy; and
yet when I hear a Democrat boasting himself of the age of his[18]party I feel like reminding him that there are other organized evils
in the world, older than the Democratic party. "The Republican
party," the toast which you have assigned to me to-night, seems
to have a past, a present and a future tense to it. It suggests
history, and yet history so recent that it is to many here to-night
a story of current events in which they have been participants.
The Republican party—the influences which called it together were
eclectic in their character. The men who formed it and organized
it were picked men. The first assembly that sounded in its
camp was a call to sacrifice, and not to spoils. It assembled about
an altar to sacrifice, and in a temple beset with enemies. It is
the only political party organized in America that has its "Book
of Martyrs." On the bloody fields of Kansas, Republicans died for
their creed, and since then we have put in that book the sacred
memory of our immortal leader who has been mentioned here to-night—Abraham
Lincoln—who died for his faith and devotion to
the principles of human liberty and constitutional union. And
there have followed it a great army of men who have died by reason
of the fact that they adhered to the political creed that we loved.
It is the only party in this land which in the past has been proscribed
and persecuted to death for its allegiance to the principles
of human liberty. After Lincoln had triumphed in that great
forum of debate in his contest with Douglas, the Republican party
carried that debate from the hustings to the battle-field and forever
established the doctrine that human liberty is of natural right
and universal. It clinched the matchless logic of Webster in his
celebrated debate against the right of secession by a demonstration
of its inability.
No party ever entered upon its administration of the affairs of
this Nation under circumstances so beset with danger and difficulty
as those which surrounded the Republican party when it took
up the reins of executive control. In all other political contests
those who had resisted the victorious party yielded acquiescence
at the polls, but the Republican party in its success was confronted
by armed resistance to national authority. The first acts of Republican
administration were to assemble armies to maintain the
authority of the Nation throughout the rebellious States. It organized
armies, it fed them, and it fought them through those years
of war with an undying and persistent faith that refused to be
appalled by any dangers or discouraged by any difficulties. In the
darkest days of the rebellion the Republican party by faith saw
Appomattox through the smoke of Bull Run, and Raleigh through
the mists of Chickamauga; and not only did it conduct this great[19]civil war to a victorious end, not only did it restore the national
authority and set up the flag on all those places where it had been
overthrown and that flag torn down, but it in the act and as an
incident in the restoration of national authority accomplished that
act which, if no other had been recorded in its history, would have
given it immortality. The emancipation of a race, brought about
as an incident of war under the proclamation of the first Republican
President, has forever immortalized the party that accomplished
it.
But not only were these dangers and difficulties and besetments
and discouragements of this long strife at home, but there was
also a call for the highest statesmanship in dealing with the foreign
affairs of the Government during that period of war. England and
France not only gave to the Confederacy belligerent rights, but
threatened to extend recognition, and even armed intervention.
There was scarcely a higher achievement in the long history of
brilliant statesmanship which stands to the credit of our party than
the matchless management of our diplomatic relations during the
period of our war; dignified, yet reserved, masterful, yet patient.
Those enemies of republican liberty were held at bay until we had
accomplished perpetual peace at Appomattox. That grasping
avarice which has attempted to coin commercial advantages out of
the distress of other nations which has so often characterized
English diplomacy naturally made the Government of England
the ally of the Confederacy, that had prohibited protective duties
in its constitution, and yet Geneva followed Appomattox. A trinity
of effort was necessary to that consummation—war, finance and
diplomacy; Grant, Chase, Seward, and Lincoln over all, and each
a victor in his own sphere. When 500,000 veterans found themselves
without any pressing engagement, and Phil Sheridan sauntered
down towards the borders of Mexico, French evacuation was expedited,
and when Gen. Grant advised the English Government that
our claims for the depredations committed by those rebel cruisers
that were sent out from British ports to prey upon our commerce
must be paid, but that we were not in a hurry about it—we could
wait, but in the mean time interest would accumulate—the Geneva
arbitration was accepted and compensation made for these unfriendly
invasions of our rights. It became fashionable again at
the tables of the English nobility to speak of our common ancestry
and our common tongue. Then again France began to remind us
of La Fayette and De Grasse. Five hundred thousand veteran troops
and an unemployed navy did more for us than a common tongue
and ancient friendships would do in the time of our distress. And[20]we must not forget that it is often easier to assemble armies than
it is to assemble army revenues. Though no financial secretary
ever had laid upon him a heavier burden than was placed upon
Salmon P. Chase to provide the enormous expenditures which the
maintenance of our army required, this ceaseless, daily, gigantic
drain upon the National Treasury called for the highest statesmanship.
And it was found, and our credit was not only maintained through
the war, but the debt that was accumulated, which our Democratic
friends said could never be paid, we at once began to discharge when
the army was disbanded.
And so it is that in this timely effort—consisting first in this
appeal to the courage and patriotism of the people of this country
that responded to the call of Lincoln and filled our armies with
brave men that, under the leadership of Grant and Sherman and
Thomas, suppressed the rebellion, and under the wise, magnificent
system of our revenue enabled us to defray our expenses, and under
the sagacious administration of our State Department held Europe
at bay while we were attending to the business at home. In these
departments of administration the Republican party has shown
itself conspicuously able to deal with the greatest questions that
have ever been presented to American statesmanship for solution.
We must not forget that in dealing with these questions we were
met continually by the protest and opposition of the Democratic
party. The war against the States was unconstitutional. There
was no right to coerce sovereign States. The war was a failure,
and a dishonorable peace was demanded. The legal tenders were
illegal. The constitutional amendments were void. And so through
this whole brilliant history of achievement in this administration
we were followed by the Democratic statesman protesting against
every step and throwing every impediment in the way of National
success until it seemed to be true of many of their leaders that in
their estimation nothing was lawful, nothing was lovely, that did
not conduce to the success of the rebellion.
Now, what conclusion shall we draw? Is there anything in this
story, so briefly and imperfectly told, to suggest any conclusion as
to the inadequacy or incompetency of the Republican party to deal
with any question that is now presented for solution or that we
may meet in the progress of this people's history? Why, countrymen,
these problems in government were new. We took the ship
of state when there was treachery at the helm, when there was
mutiny on the deck, when the ship was among the rocks, and we
put loyalty at the helm; we brought the deck into order and sub[21]jection.
We have brought the ship into the wide and open sea of
prosperity, and is it to be suggested that the party that has accomplished
these magnificent achievements cannot sail and manage the
good ship in the frequented roadways of ordinary commerce?
What is there now before us that presents itself for solution?
What questions are we to grapple with? What unfinished work
remains to be done? It seems to me that the work that is unfinished
is to make that constitutional grant of citizenship, the
franchise to the colored men of the South, a practical and living
reality. The condition of things is such in this country—a government
by constitutional majority—that whenever the people become
convinced that an administration or a law does not represent the
will of the majority of our qualified electors, then that administration
ceases to challenge the respect of our people and that law
ceases to command their willing obedience. This is a republican
government, a government by majority, the majorities to be
ascertained by a fair count and each elector expressing his will at
the ballot-box. I know of no reason why any law should bind my
conscience that does not have this sanction behind it. I know of
no reason why I should yield respect to any executive officer whose
title is not based upon a majority vote of the qualified electors of
this country. What is the condition of things in the Southern
States to-day?
The Republican vote is absolutely suppressed. Elections in many
of those States have become a farce. In the last congressional
election in the State of Alabama there were several congressional
districts where the entire vote for members of Congress did not
reach 2,000; whereas in most of the districts of the North the vote
cast at our congressional elections goes from 30,000 to 50,000. I had
occasion to say a day or two ago that in a single congressional
district in the State of Nebraska there were more votes cast to
elect one Congressman than were cast in the State of Alabama at the
same election to elect their whole delegation. Out of what does
this come? The suppression of the Republican vote; the understanding
among our Democratic friends that it is not necessary that
they should vote because their opponents are not allowed to vote.
But some one will suggest: "Is there a remedy for this?" I do not
know, my fellow citizens, how far there is a legal remedy under
our Constitution, but it does not seem to me to be an adequate
answer. It does not seem to me to be conclusive against the agitation
of the question even if we should be compelled to respond to
the arrogant question that is asked us: "What are you going to
do about it?" Even if we should be compelled to answer: "We[22]can do nothing but protest," is it not worth while here, and in
relation to this American question, that we should at least lift up
our protest; that we should at least denounce the wrong; that we
should at least deprive the perpetrators of it of what we used to
call the usufructs of the crime? If you cannot prevent a burglar
from breaking into your house you will do a great deal towards
discouraging burglary if you prevent him from carrying off anything,
and so it seems to me that if we can, upon this question,
arouse the indignant protest of the North, and unite our efforts in
a determination that those who perpetrate these wrongs against
popular suffrage shall not by means of those wrongs seat a President
in Washington to secure the Federal patronage in a State, we shall
have done much to bring this wrong to an end. But at least while
we are protesting by representatives from our State Department at
Washington against wrongs perpetrated in Russia against the Jew,
and in our popular assemblies here against the wrongs which
England has inflicted upon Ireland, shall we not at least in reference
to this gigantic and intolerable wrong in our own country, as a
party, lift up a stalwart and determined protest against it?
But some of these independent journalists, about which our
friend MacMillan talked, call this the "bloody shirt." They say
we are trying to revive the strife of the war, to rake over the extinct
embers, to kindle the fire again. I want it understood that
for one I have no quarrel with the South for what took place
between 1861 and 1865. I am willing to forget that they were
rebels, at least as soon as they are willing to forget it themselves,
and that time does not seem to have come yet to them. But our
complaint is against what was done in 1884, not against what was
done during the war. Our complaint is against what will be done
this year, not what was done between 1861 and 1865. No bloody
shirt—though that cry never had any terrors for me. I believe we
greatly underestimate the importance of bringing the issue to the
front, and with that oft-time Republican courage and outspoken
fidelity to truth denouncing it the land over. If we cannot do
anything else we can either make these people ashamed of this
outrage against the ballot or make the world ashamed of them.
There is another question to which the Republican party has
committed itself, and on the line of which it has accomplished,
as I believe, much for the prosperity of this country. I believe
the Republican party is pledged and ought to be pledged to the doctrine
of the protection of American industries and American labor.
I believe that in so far as our native inventive genius—which seems
to have no limit—our productive forces can supply the American[23]market, we ought to keep it for ourselves. And yet this new captain
on the bridge seems to congratulate himself on the fact that
the voyage is still prosperous notwithstanding the change of commanders;
who seems to forget that the reason that the voyage is
still prosperous is because the course of the ship was marked out
before he went on the bridge and the rudder tied down. He has
attempted to take a new direction since he has been in command,
with a view of changing the sailing course of the old craft, but it
has seemed to me that he has made the mistake of mistaking the
flashlight of some British lighthouse for the light of day. I do
not intend here to-night in this presence to discuss this tariff question
in any detail. I only want to say that in the passage of what
is now so flippantly called the war tariff, to raise revenue to carry
on the war out of the protective duties which were then levied,
there has come to this country a prosperity and development which
would have been impossible without it, and that reversal of this
policy now, at the suggestion of Mr. Cleveland, according to the line
of the blind statesman from Texas, would be to stay and interrupt
this march of prosperity on which we have entered. I am one of
those uninstructed political economists that have an impression
that some things may be too cheap; that I cannot find myself in
full sympathy with this demand for cheaper coats, which seems to
me necessarily to involve a cheaper man and woman under the
coat. I believe it is true to-day that we have many things in this
country that are too cheap, because whenever it is proved that the
man or woman who produces any article cannot get a decent living
out of it, then it is too cheap.
But I have not intended to discuss in detail any of these questions
with which we have grappled, upon which we have proclaimed a
policy, or which we must meet in the near future. I am only here
to-night briefly to sketch to you the magnificent career of this party
to which we give our allegiance—a union of the States, restored,
cemented, regenerated; a Constitution cleansed of its compromises
with slavery and brought into harmony with the immortal Declaration;
a race emancipated, given citizenship and the ballot; a
national credit preserved and elevated until it stands unequalled
among the nations of the world; a currency more prized than the
coin for which it may be exchanged; a story of prosperity more
marvellous than was ever written by the historian before. This is
in brief outline the magnificent way in which the Republican
party has wrought. It stands to-day for a pure, equal, honest
ballot the country over. It stands to-day without prejudice or
malice, the well-wisher of every State in this Union; disposed to[24]fill all the streams of the South with prosperity, and demanding
only that the terms of the surrender at Appomattox shall be complied
with. When that magnificent act of clemency was witnessed,
when those sublime and gracious words were uttered by
General Grant at Appomattox, the country applauded. We said
to those misguided men: "Go home"—in the language of the
parole—"and you shall be unmolested while you obey the laws in
force at the place where you reside." We ask nothing more, but
we cannot quietly submit to the fact, while it is true everywhere
in the United States that the man who fought for years against his
country is allowed the full, free, unrestricted exercise of his new
citizenship, when it shall not also be true everywhere that every
man who followed Lincoln in his political views, and every soldier
who fought to uphold the flag, shall in the same full, ample manner
be secured in his political rights.
This disfranchisement question is hardly a Southern question in
all strictness. It has gone into Dakota, and the intelligent and
loyal population of that Territory is deprived, was at the last election,
and will be again, of any participation in the decision of
national questions solely because the prevailing sentiment of
Dakota is Republican. Not only that, but this disregard of purity
and honesty in our elections invaded Ohio in an attempt to seize
the United States Senate by cheating John Sherman, that gallant
statesman, out of his seat in the Senate. And it came here to
Illinois, in an attempt also to defeat that man whom I loved so
much, John A. Logan, out of his seat in the United States Senate.
And it has come into our own State (Indiana) by tally-sheet frauds,
committed by individuals, it is true, but justified and defended
by the Democratic party of the State in an attempt to cheat us all
out of our fair election majorities. It was and is a question that
lies over every other question, for every other question must be
submitted to this tribunal for decision, and if the tribunal is corrupted,
why shall we debate questions at all? Who can doubt
whether, in defeat or victorious, in the future as in the past, taking
high ground upon all these questions, the same stirring cause that
assembled our party in the beginning will yet be found drawing like
a great magnet the young and intelligent moral elements of our
country into the Republican organization? Defeated once, we are
ready for this campaign which is impending, and I believe that
the great party of 1860 is gathering together for the coming election
with a force and a zeal and a resolution that will inevitably carry
it, under that standard-bearer who may be chosen here in June, to
victory in November.
A fewhours after the receipt of the news of the nomination
of General Harrison for President, on Monday, June
25, 1888, delegations from neighboring cities and towns
began to arrive to congratulate him. From the moment
the result at Chicago was known, and for two days thereafter,
the city of Indianapolis was the scene of excitement
and enthusiasm unparalleled in its history.
The first out-of-town delegation to arrive was the Republican
Club of Danville, Hendricks County, Indiana,
three hundred strong, led by the Hon. L. M. Campbell,
Rev. Ira J. Chase, Major J. B. Homan, Joel T. Baker,
Capt. Worrel, and E. Hogate.
They came on the afternoon of the twenty-fifth and
marched to the Harrison residence escorted by about five
thousand excited citizens of Indianapolis, and it was to
these men of Hendricks that General Harrison made his first
public speech—after his nomination—which proved to be
the opening words of a series of impromptu addresses remarkable
for their eloquence, conciseness and variety, and
generally conceded by the press of the day to have been
the most brilliant and successful campaign speeches of his
generation.
To the Danville Club General Harrison said:
Gentlemen—I am very much obliged to my Hendricks County
friends for this visit. The trouble you have taken to make this
call so soon after information of the result at Chicago reached you
induces me to say a word or two, though you will not, of course,
expect any reference to politics or any extended reference to the
result at Chicago. I very highly appreciate the wise, discreet and
affectionate interest which our delegation and the people of Indiana
have displayed in the convention which has just closed at
Chicago. [Cries of "Good!" "Good!" and cheers.] I accept your
visit to-day as an expression of your confidence and respect, and
I thank you for it. [Great cheering.]
Scarcely had the Danville visit concluded before another
organization from Hendricks County arrived, the Republican
Club of Plainfield, led by Dr. Harlan, William G.
Ellis, Oscar Hadley, and A. T. Harrison.
Responding to their call, General Harrison said:
Gentlemen—I can only thank you for this evidence of your
friendliness. That so many of my Hendricks County friends should
have reached Indianapolis so soon after hearing the result at
Chicago is very gratifying. The people of your county have
always given me the most hearty support whenever I have appealed
to them for support. I have a most affectionate interest in your
county and in its people, especially because of the fact that it furnished
two companies to the regiment which I took into the field.
Some of the best and most loyal of these soldiers gave their lives
for their country in the battles in which the regiment was engaged.
These incidents have attached me to the county, and I trust I have
yet, even here among this group, some of my friends of the Seventieth
Indiana surviving, who will always be glad to extend to me,
as I to them, a comrade's hand. I thank you for this call.
A few moments later two large delegations arrived from
Hamilton and Howard Counties: Hon. J. R. Gray of
Noblesville and Milton Garrigus of Kokomo delivered
congratulatory addresses on behalf of their townsmen, to
which General Harrison responded:
I thank you, my friends of Hamilton County, for this call. I
know the political steadfastness of that true and tried county.
Your people have always been kind to me. I thank you for this
evidence of your confidence and respect.
Howard County. Of that county I may say what I have said of
Hamilton County. It is a neighbor in location and it is a neighbor
in good works. [Great cheering.]
On the evening of the twenty-fifth five thousand or more
neighbors and residents of the city congregated before the
Harrison residence.
The General, on appearing, was greeted by a demonstration
lasting several minutes. The standard-bearers,
carrying the great banner of the Oliver P. Morton Club,
made their way to the steps and held the flag over his[27]head. Hon. W. N. Harding finally quieted the crowd and
presented General Harrison, who spoke as follows:
Neighbors and Friends—I am profoundly sensible of the kindness
which you evidence to-night in gathering in such large numbers
to extend to me your congratulations over the result at Chicago. It
would be altogether inappropriate that I should say anything of a
partisan character. Many of my neighbors who differ with me
politically have kindly extended to me, as citizens of Indianapolis,
their congratulations over this event. [Cries of "Good!" "Good!"]
Such congratulations, as well as those of my neighbors who sympathize
with me in my political beliefs, are exceedingly grateful.
I have been a long time a resident of Indianapolis—over thirty
years. Many who are here before me have been with me, during
all those years, citizens of this great and growing capital of a magnificent
State. We have seen the development and growth of
this city. We are proud of its position to-day, and we look
forward in the future to a development which shall far outstrip
that which the years behind us have told. I thank you sincerely
for this evidence that those who have known me well and long
give me still their confidence and respect. [Cheers and applause.]
Kings sometimes bestow decorations upon those whom they
desire to honor, but that man is most highly decorated who has
the affectionate regard of his neighbors and friends. [Great
applause, and cries of "Hurrah for Harrison!"] I will only again
thank you most cordially for this demonstration of your regard.
I shall be glad, from time to time, as opportunity offers, to meet
you all personally, and regret that to-night this crowd is so great
that it will be impossible for me to take each one of you by the
hand [cries of "We'll forgive you!"], but we will be here together
and my house will always open its doors gladly to any of you when
you may desire to see me. [Great cheering.]
Theevening of the day following his nomination General
Harrison was visited by the surviving members of his
old regiment, the Seventieth Indiana Volunteers, led by
Major George W. Grubbs of Martinsville. There was
also present a delegation from Boone County headed by the
Hon. Henry L. Bynum, O. P. Mahan and S. J. Thomp[28]son;
also the returning delegates from Vermont to the
Chicago convention, headed by Gov. Redfield Proctor and
General J. G. McCullough.
Responding to the address of Major Grubbs, on behalf
of the veterans, General Harrison said:
Comrades—Called, as I have been, by the national convention of
one of the great political parties of this country to be its candidate
for the presidency, it will probably be my fortune before the election
to receive many delegations representing various interests and
classes of our fellow-citizens, but I am sure that out of them all
there will come none whose coming will touch my heart so deeply
as this visit from my comrades of the Seventieth Indiana and these
scattered members of the other regiments that constituted the First
Brigade of the Third Division of the Twentieth Army Corps. I
recall the scene to which Major Grubbs has alluded. I remember
that summer day, when, equipped and armed, we were called to
leave our homes and cross the Ohio River and enter the territory
that was in arms against the Government which we were sworn to
support. I recall, with you, the tender parting, the wringing of
hearts with which we left those we loved. I recall the high and
buoyant determination, the resolute carriage with which you went
to do your part in the work of suppressing the great rebellion. I
remember the scenes through which we went in that hard discipline
of service and sickness, and all of those hard incidents which are
necessary to convert citizens into veterans.
I remember the scenes of battle in which we stood together. I remember
especially that broad and deep grave at the foot of the Resaca
hill where we left those gallant comrades who fell in that desperate
charge. I remember, through it all, the gallantry, devotion
and steadfastness, the high set patriotism you always exhibited.
I remember how, after sweeping down with Sherman from Chattanooga
to the sea and up again through the Carolinas and Virginia,
you, with those gallant armies that had entered the gate of the
South by Louisville and Vicksburg, marched in the great review
up the grand avenue of our Nation's capital.
I remember that proud scene of which we were part that day;
the glad rejoicing as our faces were turned homeward, the applause
which greeted us as the banner of our regiment was now and then
recognized by some home friends who had gathered to see us—the
whole course of these incidents of battle, of sickness, of death, of
victory, crowned thus by the triumphant reassertion of national
authority, and by the muster out and our return to those homes[29]that we loved, made again secure against all the perils which had
threatened them.
I feel that in this campaign upon which I am entering, and
which will undoubtedly cause careful scrutiny, perhaps unkind and
even malicious assault, all that related to my not conspicuous but
loyal services with you in the army I may confidently leave, with
my honor, in the hands of the surviving members of the Seventieth
Indiana, whatever their political faith may be. [Cries of "That is
true, General!" and "Yes!" "Yes!"]
May I ask you now, for I am too deeply moved by this visit to
speak as I would desire, that each one will enter this door, that
will always open with a hearty welcome to you, and let me take
you by the hand? [Cheering.]
The event of the night was the visit of the California
delegation, at ten o'clock, accompanied by the Indiana
delegation to Chicago and several hundred personal friends
and neighbors of General Harrison just returned from
Chicago, where they had been laboring for his nomination.
The Hon. M. H. de Young and John F. Ellison of California
delivered congratulatory addresses, on conclusion of
which the Californians hastened to their train; after they
departed the great crowd refused to disperse and called
repeatedly for General Harrison, who responded as
follows:
Fellow-Citizens, Ladies and Gentlemen—I am very deeply impressed
and gratified with this magnificent demonstration of your
respect. No man can be so highly honored by any convention, or
by any decoration which any of the authorities of the Government
can bestow, as by the respect and confidence of those who live near
him. My heart is touched by this demonstration which my fellow-citizens
have given me of their personal respect for me. I do not,
however, accept this manifestation of interest as wholly due to
myself. The great bulk of those who are assembled here to-night
manifest rather their interest in those political principles which I
have been called by the representatives, in national convention of
the Republican party, to represent in this campaign. But I will
not discuss any of those high issues to-night, because I am glad to
know that among those who are gathered here, and among those
who have paid me the compliment of their presence in my home,
there are many citizens of Indianapolis who differ with me politi[30]cally.
I would not, therefore, if it were otherwise proper, mar
this occasion by the discussion of any political topic. I am glad
to have an opportunity to return my sincere and heartfelt thanks
to the Indiana delegation, and to that band of devoted friends who
gathered about them and assisted them in their work at Chicago.
When I saw in the newspaper press of the East and of the West the
encomiums that were passed by the correspondents upon the deportment
and character of the representatives of Indiana at Chicago,
I was greatly pleased. When I heard of their affectionate devotion,
of their discreet and wise presentation of the claims of
Indiana, I was still further gratified. And if the result of that
convention had been, as it well might have been if individuals
had only been considered in the contest that was there waged, the
selection for this high place of some one other than myself, I
should have felt that the devoted interest, the wise and faithful
presentation by the Indiana delegation of the Indiana situation
was such that the failure to yield to their argument would still
have left me crowned with the highest crown that can be placed
upon mortal brow—the affection and confidence and discreet support
of my friends from Indiana. [Cries of "Good!" "Good!"] I
am glad that the despatches said of them, and truly said, that they
conducted their canvass with that gentle and respectful regard to
the interests and character of the others who were named for this
high place, and that they came home without those regrets which
must have followed if this victory had been won at the expense of
any of those noble names that were presented for the suffrage of
the convention.
I do not feel at all that in selecting the candidate who was
chosen regard was had simply to the individual equipment and
qualifications for the duties of this high office. I feel sure that if
the convention had felt free to regard these things only, some other
of those distinguished men, old-time leaders of the Republican
party, Blaine, or Sherman, or Allison, or some of the others named—would
have been chosen in preference to me. I feel that it was the
situation in Indiana and its relation to the campaign that was impending
rather than the personal equipment or qualifications of the
candidate that was chosen that turned the choice of the convention
in our direction. We are here to-night to thank those members of
the convention who have done us the honor to pay our capital a visit
to-night not only for this visit, but for the support and interest which
they took in the Indiana candidacy in the convention at Chicago. I
thank you again for gathering here to-night. I am sure that in
this demonstration you give evidence that the interest in this cam[31]paign
will not flag until the election has determined the result of
the contest. And I feel sure, too, my fellow-citizens, that we have
joined now a contest of great principles, and that the armies which
are to fight out this great contest before the American people will
encamp upon the high plains of principle, and not in the low
swamps of personal defamation or detraction. [Cries of "Hear!"
"Hear!" and "Good!"] Again I thank you for the compliment of
your presence here to-night, and bid you good-night. [Great
cheering.]
Duringthe afternoon representatives of the Marquette
Club of Chicago—of which General Harrison is an honorary
member—called to present a set of congratulatory
resolutions adopted by the club. The committee comprised
Geo. V. Lauman, H. D. Crocker, W. S. Gilbert, E. B.
Gould, H. M. Kingman and J. S. Moore.
"The Marquette Club of Chicago takes great pride in
the fact that within its walls and at its board was fired the
first gun in Chicago of that memorable contest which
has culminated in the nomination of its most honored
member, General Benjamin Harrison, to fill the highest
office within the gift of the American people."
Gentlemen of the Marquette Club—I sincerely thank you for the
congratulations of the Marquette Club of Chicago. I well recollect
the evening I spent with you last February, and I remember
how favorably your club impressed me at that time as a body of
active, energetic young Republicans: not so much an organization
for social purposes as for active advancement of Republican principles
in your vicinity, and in the country as well. I thought I
recognized in you then an efficient body for work in the State of
Illinois, one that could in the coming campaign render signal service
to the party whose principles its members maintain. I rejoice
in your coming to call on me here, and I hope you will carry my
sincere thanks to your members, and make yourselves welcome
at my home now and whenever you are in Indianapolis.
On the evening of June 30 several thousand citizens,
irrespective of party, paid their respects to General Harrison;
at the head of the column marched four hundred
veterans commanded by Moses G. McLain. Major James
L. Mitchell, a prominent Democrat, was spokesman for
the veterans.
Comrade Mitchell and Fellow-Soldiers—I sincerely thank you for
this evidence of your respect and comradeship. I am very certain
that there is no class whose confidence and respect I more highly
prize or more earnestly covet than that of the soldiers who, in the
great war from 1861 to 1865, upheld the loved banner of our country
and brought it home in honor. The comradeship of the war will
never end until our lives end. The fires in which our friendship
was riveted and welded were too hot for the bond ever to be
broken. We sympathize with each other in the glory of the common
cause for which we fought. We went, not as partisans, but
as patriots, into the strife which involved the national life. I am
sure that no army was ever assembled in the world's history that
was gathered from higher impulses than the army of the Union.
[Cries of "Right!" "Right!"]
It was no sordid impulse, no hope of spoils that induced these
men to sunder the tender associations of home and forsake their
business pursuits to look into the grim face of death with unblanched
cheeks and firm and resolute eyes. They are the kind of
men who draw their impulses from the high springs of truth and
duty. The army was great in its assembling. It came with an
impulse that was majestic and terrible. It was as great in its
muster-out as in the brilliant work which had been done in the
field. When the war was over the soldier was not left at the tavern.
Every man had in some humble place a chair by some fireside
where he was loved and towards which his heart went forward
with a quick step. [Applause.]
And so this great army that had rallied for the defence and preservation
of the country was disbanded without tumult or riot or
any public disturbance. It had covered the country with the mantle
of its protection when it needed it, as the snows of spring cover
the early vegetation, and when the warm sun of peace shone upon
it, it disappeared as the snow sinks into the earth to refresh
and vivify the summer growth. They found their homes; they
carried their brawn and intellect into all the pursuits of peace to[33]stimulate them and lift them up; they added their great impulse
to that great wave of prosperity which has swept over our country
ever since. [Applause.] But in nothing was this war greater than
in that it led a race into freedom and brought those whom we had
conquered in the struggle into the full enjoyment of a restored citizenship,
and shared again with them the responsibilities and
duties of a restored government. [Applause.]
I thank you to-night most sincerely for this evidence of your
comradeship. I thank, specially, those friends who differ with me
in their political views, that they have put these things aside
to-night, and have come here to give me a comrade's greeting.
[Applause.] May I have the privilege now, without detaining you
longer, of taking by the hand every soldier here? [Applause.]
Later, the same evening, the Harrison League of
Indianapolis, numbering three hundred colored men, assembled
on the lawn and congratulated the Republican
nominee through its spokesman, Mr. Ben D. Bagby. General
Harrison's response was as follows:
Mr. Bagby and Gentlemen of the Harrison Club—I assure you
that I have a sincere respect for, and a very deep interest in, the
colored people of the United States. My memory, as a boy, goes
back to the time when slavery existed in the Southern States. I
was born upon the Ohio River, which was the boundary between
the free State of Ohio and the slave State of Kentucky. Some of
my earliest recollections relate to the stirring and dramatic interest
which was now and then excited by the pursuit of an escaping
slave for the hope of offered rewards.
I remember, as a boy, wandering once through my grandfather's
orchard at North Bend, and in pressing through an alder thicket
that grew on its margin I saw sitting in its midst a colored man
with the frightened look of a fugitive in his eye, and attempting
to satisfy his hunger with some walnuts he had gathered. He
noticed my approach with a fierce, startled look, to see whether I
was likely to betray him; I was frightened myself and left him in
some trepidation, but I kept his secret. [Cries of "Good!"
"Good!"] I have seen the progress which has been made in the
legislation relating to your race, and the progress that the race
itself has made since that day. When I came to Indiana to reside
the unfriendly black code was in force. My memory goes back
to the time when colored witnesses were first allowed to appear in
court in this State to testify in cases where white men were par[34]ties.
Prior to that time, as you know, you had been excluded
from the right to tell in court, under oath, your side of the story in
any legal controversy with white men. [Cries of "I know that!"]
The laws prevented your coming here. In every way you were at
a disadvantage, even in the free States. I have lived to see this
unfriendly legislation removed from our statute-books and the
unfriendly section of our State Constitution repealed. I have lived
not only to see that, but to see the race emancipated and slavery
extinct. [Cries of "Amen to that!"]
Nothing gives me more pleasure among the results of the war
than this. History will give a prominent place in the story of this
great war to the fact that it resulted in making all men free, and
gave to you equal civil rights. The imagination and art of the
poet, the tongue of the orator, the skill of the artist will be brought
under contribution to tell this story of the emancipation of the
souls of men. [Applause and cries of "Amen!"]
Nothing gives me so much gratification as a Republican as to
feel that in all the steps that led to this great result the Republican
party sympathized with you, pioneered for you in legislation, and
was the architect of those great measures of relief which have so
much ameliorated your condition. [Applause.]
I know nowhere in this country of a monument that I behold
with so much interest, that touches my heart so deeply, as that
monument at Washington representing the Proclamation of Emancipation
by President Lincoln, the kneeling black man at the feet
of the martyred President, with the shackles falling from his
limbs.
I remember your faithfulness during the time of the war. I
remember your faithful service to the army as we were advancing
through an unknown country. We could always depend upon the
faithfulness of the black man. [Cries of "Right you are!"] He
might be mistaken, but he was never false. Many a time in the
darkness of night have those faithful men crept to our lines and
given us information of the approach of the enemy. I shall never
forget a scene that I saw when Sherman's army marched through
a portion of North Carolina, between Raleigh and Richmond,
where our troops had never before been. The colored people had
not seen our flag since the banner of treason had been set up in its
stead. As we were passing through a village the colored people
flocked out to see once more the starry banner of freedom, the
emblem, promise, and security of their emancipation. I remember
an aged woman, over whom nearly a century of slavery must
have passed, pressed forward to see the welcome banner that told[35]her that her soul would go over into the presence of her God. I
remember her exultation of spirit as she danced in the dusty road
before our moving column, and, like Miriam of old, called upon
her soul to rejoice in the deliverance which God had wrought by
the coming of those who stood for and made secure the Proclamation
of Emancipation. [Applause.]
I rejoice in all that you have accomplished since you have been
free. I recall no scene more pathetic than that which I have often
seen about our camp-fires. An aged man, a fugitive from slavery,
had found freedom in our camp. After a day of hard work, when
taps had sounded and the lights in the tents were out, I have seen
him with the spelling-book that the chaplain had given him, lying
prone upon the ground taxing his old eyes, and pointing with his
hardened finger to the letters of the alphabet, as he endeavored to
open to his clouded brain the avenues of information and light.
I am glad to know that that same desire to increase and enlarge
your information possesses the race to-day. It is the open way for
the race to that perfect emancipation which will remove remaining
prejudices and secure to you in all parts of the land an equal and
just participation in the government of this country. It cannot
much longer be withholden from you.
Again I thank you for your presence here to-night and will be
glad to take by the hand any of you who desire to see me. [Great
applause.]
TheIndiana Republican State Committee, through its
chairman, the Hon. James N. Huston, designated as a committee
to receive and escort the committee on notification
from the National Convention the following gentlemen:
Ex-Gov. Albert G. Porter, Mayor Caleb S. Denny, Col.
John C. New, J. N. Huston, Col. J. H. Bridgland, Hon.
Stanton J. Peelle, William Wallace, M. G. McLain, N. S.
Byram, Hon. W. H. Calkins, W. J. Richards, and Hon.
H. M. LaFollette.
At noon on July 4 the notification committee representing
the Republican National Convention arrived under[36]escort at the residence of General Harrison, No. 674 Delaware
Street. The following delegates comprised the
committee:
Judge Morris M. Estee of California,Chairman; Alabama,
A. H. Hendricks; Arkansas, Logan H. Roots; California,
Paris Kilburn; Colorado, Henry R. Wolcott; Connecticut,
E. S. Henry; Delaware, J. R. Whitaker; Florida,
F. M. Wicker; Georgia, W. W. Brown; Illinois, Thomas
W. Scott; Indiana, J. N. Huston; Iowa, Thomas Updegraff;
Kansas, Henry L. Alden; Kentucky, George Denny;
Louisiana, Andrew Hero; Maine, Samuel H. Allen; Maryland,
Wm. M. Marine; Massachusetts, F. L. Burden;
Michigan, Wm. McPherson; Minnesota, R. B. Langdon;
Mississippi, T. W. Stringer; Missouri, A. W. Mullins;
Nebraska, R. S. Norval; Nevada, S. E. Hamilton; New
Hampshire, P. C. Cheney; New Jersey, H. H. Potter;
New York, Obed Wheeler; North Carolina, D. C. Pearson;
Ohio, Charles Foster; Oregon, F. P. Mays; Pennsylvania,
Frank Reeder; Rhode Island, B. M. Bosworth; South
Carolina, Paris Simpkins; Tennessee, J. C. Dougherty;
Texas, E. H. Terrell; Vermont, Redfield Proctor; Virginia,
Harry Libby; West Virginia, C. B. Smith; Wisconsin,
H. C. Payne; Arizona, Geo. Christ; Dakota, G.
W. Hopp; Dist. Columbia, P. H. Carson; Idaho, G. A.
Black; Montana, G. O. Eaton; New Mexico, J. F. Chavez;
Utah, J. J. Daly; Washington, T. H. Minor; Wyoming,
C. D. Clark.
Chairman Estee spoke for the committee; his address
signed by each member was also presented to General
Harrison, who in a full, clear voice replied as follows:
Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen of the Committee—The official
notice which you have brought of the nomination conferred upon
me by the Republican National Convention recently in session at
Chicago excites emotions of a profound, though of a somewhat
conflicting, character. That after full deliberation and free consultation
the representatives of the Republican party of the United
States should have concluded that the great principles enunciated[37]in the platform adopted by the convention could be in some measure
safely confided to my care is an honor of which I am deeply
sensible and for which I am very grateful. I do not assume or
believe that this choice implies that the convention found in me
any pre-eminent fitness or exceptional fidelity to the principles of
government to which we are mutually pledged. My satisfaction
with the result would be altogether spoiled if that result had been
reached by any unworthy methods or by a disparagement of the
more eminent men who divided with me the suffrages of the convention.
I accept the nomination with so deep a sense of the dignity
of the office and of the gravity of its duties and the responsibilities
as altogether to exclude any feeling of exultation or pride.
The principles of government and the practices in administration
upon which issues are now fortunately so clearly made are so
important in their relations to the national and to individual prosperity
that we may expect an unusual popular interest in the campaign.
Relying wholly upon the considerate judgment of our
fellow-citizens and the gracious favor of God, we will confidently
submit our cause to the arbitrament of a free ballot.
The day you have chosen for this visit suggests no thoughts that
are not in harmony with the occasion. The Republican party has
walked in the light of the Declaration of Independence. It has lifted
the shaft of patriotism upon the foundation laid at Bunker Hill.
It has made the more perfect union secure by making all men
free. Washington and Lincoln, Yorktown and Appomattox, the
Declaration of Independence and the Proclamation of Emancipation
are naturally and worthily associated in our thoughts to-day.
As soon as may be possible I shall by letter communicate to your
chairman a more formal acceptance of the nomination, but it may
be proper for me now to say that I have already examined the
platform with some care, and that its declarations, to some of
which your chairman has alluded, are in harmony with my views.
It gives me pleasure, gentlemen, to receive you in my home and to
thank you for the cordial manner in which you have conveyed
your official message.
At the conclusion of these formalities Charles W. Clisbee,
one of the secretaries of the National Convention,
presented the nominee an engrossed official copy of the
Republican platform.
July 4, 1888, was a memorable day in the life of
General Harrison and his wife; for aside from the official[38]notification of his nomination, they were the recipients of
congratulations of a unique character from the Tippecanoe
Club of Marion County, a political organization
composed exclusively of veterans who had voted for General
William Henry Harrison in the campaigns of 1836
or 1840.
Nearly all the younger and able-bodied members attended
the Chicago Convention and worked unceasingly for the
nomination of General Benjamin Harrison.
Their average age was seventy-five years, while one
member, James Hubbard of Mapleton, was over one hundred
years old.
On the afternoon of the fourth, ninety-one of these veterans
commanded by their marshal, Isaac Taylor, marched
to General Harrison's house through the rain. They had
adopted a congratulatory address which was presented by
a committee consisting of Dr. George W. New, Judge
J. B. Julian, and Dr. Lawson Abbett, to which General
Harrison feelingly replied as follows:
Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Tippecanoe Club of Marion
County—I am very deeply touched by your visit to-day. The
respect and confidence of such a body of men is a crown. Many
of you I have known since I first came to Indianapolis. I count
you my friends. [Cries of "Yes, sir, we are!"] You have not
only shown your friendliness and respect in the political contests
in which my name has been used, but very many of you in the
social and business relations of life extended to me, when I came
a young man among you, encouragement and help. I know that
at the beginning your respect and confidence was builded upon
the respect, and even affection—may I not say, which you bore to
my grandfather. [A voice, "Yes, that is true!"] May I not, without
self-laudation, now say that upon that foundation you have
since created a modest structure of respect for me? [Cries of "Yes,
sir!" "We have!" "That's the talk!"] I came among you with
the heritage I trust, of a good name [cries of "That's so!"
"Good stock!"], such as all of you enjoy. It was the only inheritance
that has been transmitted in our family. [Cries of "It has
been!"] I think you recollect, and, perhaps, it was that as much
as aught else that drew your choice in 1840 to the Whig candidate[39]for the presidency, that he came out of Virginia to the West with
no fortune but the sword he bore, and unsheathed it here in the
defence of our frontier homes. He transmitted little to his descendants
but the respect he had won from his fellow-citizens. It
seems to be the settled habit in our family to leave nothing else to
our children. [Laughter and cries of "That's enough!"] My
friends, I am a thorough believer in the American test of character
[cries of "That's right!"]: the rule must be applied to a man's
own life when his stature is taken He will not build high who
does not build for himself. [Applause and cries of "That's true!"]
I believe also in the American opportunity which puts the starry
sky above every boy's head, and sets his foot upon a ladder which
he may climb until his strength gives out.
I thank you cordially for your greeting, and for this tender of
your help in this campaign. It will add dignity and strength to
the campaign when it is found that the zealous, earnest, and intelligent
co-operation of men of mature years like you is given to it.
The Whig party to which you belonged had but one serious fault—there
were not enough of them after 1840. [Laughter and
applause.] We have since received to our ranks in the new and
greater party to which you now belong accessions from those who
were then our opponents, and we now unite with them in the
defence of principles which were dear to you as Whigs, which
were indeed the cherished and distinguishing principles of the
Whig party; and in the olden and better time, of the Democratic
party also. Chief among these were a reverent devotion to the
Constitution and the flag, and a firm faith in the benefits of a
protective tariff. If, in some of the States, under a sudden and
mad impulse some of the old Whigs who stood with you in the
campaign of 1840, to which you have referred, wandered from us,
may we not send to them to-day the greetings of these their old
associates, and invite them to come again into the fold?
And now, gentlemen, I thank you again for your visit, and would
be glad if you would remain with us for a little personal intercourse.
Fivehundred commercial travellers paid a visit to
General Harrison on July 7; they came from all parts
of the country, principally from Philadelphia, Cincinnati,
St. Louis, and Louisville. Major James R. Ross was marshal
of their delegation; David E. Coffin presented the
"drummers" to General and Mrs. Harrison.
When all had gathered within or about the residence,
Col. Ed. H. Wolfe of Rushville, Indiana, delivered a congratulatory
address on behalf of the visitors. General
Harrison, responding, said:
Gentlemen of the Commercial Travellers' Association of Indiana
and Visiting Friends—I most heartily thank you for this cordial
manifestation of your respect. It is to be expected when one has
been named for office by one of the great parties that those who are
in accord with him in his political convictions will show their
interest in the campaign which he represents, but it is particularly
gratifying to me that many of you who differ with me in political
opinion, reserving your own opinions and choice, have come here
to-night to express your gratification, personally, that I have been
named by the Republican party as its candidate for the presidency.
It is a very pleasant thing in politics when this sort of testimony
is possible, and it is very gratifying to me to-night to
receive it at your hands. I do not know why we cannot hold our
political differences with respect for each other's opinions, and
with entire respect for each other personally. Our opinions upon
the great questions which divide parties ought not to be held in
such a spirit of bigotry as will prevent us from extending to a
political opponent the concession of honesty in his opinion and
that personal respect to which he may be entitled. [Applause.]
I very much value this visit from you, for I think I know how
to estimate the commercial travellers of America. I am not going
to open before you to-night any store of flattery. I do not think
there is any market for it here. [Laughter and cries of "That's
good!" and cheers.] You know the value of that commodity perfectly.
[Laughter and continued applause.] I do not mean to
suggest at all that you are dealers in it yourselves [laughter] in
your intercourse with your customers, but I do mean to say that
your wide acquaintance with men, that judgment of character and[41]even of the moods of men which is essential to the successful prosecution
of your business makes you a very unpromising audience
upon which to pass any stale compliments.
My memory goes back to the time when there were no commercial
travellers. When I first came to Indianapolis to reside your
profession was not known. The retail merchant went to the wholesale
house and made his selections there. I appreciate the fact
that those who successfully pursue your calling must, in the nature
of things, be masters of the business in which you are engaged
and possess great adaptability and a high order of intelligence.
I thank you again for this visit; and give you in return my
most sincere respect and regard. [Applause.] I regret that there
is not room enough here for your comfort [a voice: "There will be
more room in the White House!" Another: "We will take your
order now and deliver the goods in November!"], but I shall be
glad if any or all of you will remain for a better acquaintance and
less formal intercourse. [Great applause and rousing cheers for
the next President.]
Thefirst of many delegations from other States arrived
July 9, from the city of Benton Harbor, Mich., and included
many ladies. The leading members were F. R.
Gilson, Ambrose H. Rowe, Wm. S. Farmer, G. M. Valentines,
W. B. Shanklin, E. M. Elick, A. J. Kidd, C. C.
Sweet, O. B. Hipp, R. M. Jones, W. L. Hogan, James McDonald,
Allen Brunson, Frank Melton, P. W. Hall, Geo.
W. Platt, W. L. McClure, J. C. Purrill, E. H. Kelly, J. A.
Crawford, M. J. Vincent, Dr. Boston, M. G. Kennedy,
and Dr. J. Bell. General L. M. Ward was spokesman for
the visitors. General Harrison said:
My Friends—This visit is exceptional in some of its features.
Already, in the brief time since my nomination, I have received
various delegations, but this is the first delegation that has visited
me from outside the borders of my own State. Your visit is also
exceptional and very gratifying in that you have brought with
you the ladies of your families to grace the occasion and to honor
me by their presence. I am glad to know that while the result of[42]the convention at Chicago brought disappointment to you, it has
not left any sores that need the ointment of time for their healing.
Your own favored citizen, distinguished civilian, and brave soldier,
General Alger, was among the first and among the most cordial
to extend to me his congratulations and the assurance of his
earnest support in the campaign. I am sure it cannot be otherwise
than that the Republicans of Michigan will take a deep interest
in this campaign; an interest that altogether oversteps all
personal attachments. Your State has been proudly associated with
the past successes of the Republican party, and your interests are
now closely identified with its success in the pending campaign.
I am sure, therefore, that I may accept your presence here to-night
not only as a personal compliment, but as a pledge that
Michigan will be true again to those great principles of government
which are represented by the Republican party. We cherish
the history of our party and are proud of its high achievements;
they stir the enthusiasm of the young and crown those who were
early in its ranks with well-deserved laurels. The success of the
Republican party has always been identified with the glory of the
flag and the unity of the Government. There has been nothing in
the history or principles of our party out of line with revolutionary
memories or with the enlightened statesmanship of the framers
of our Constitution. Those principles are greater than men, lasting
as truth, and sure of final vindication and triumph. Let me thank
you again for your visit, and ask introduction to each of you.
General Harrisonreceived four delegations this day.
The first was a committee of veterans from John A. Logan
Post, No. 99, G. A. R., of North Manchester, Wabash
County, who came to invite the General to attend a
soldiers' reunion for Northern Indiana. The committee
comprised Shelby Sexton, Senior Vice-Commander Indiana
G. A. R.; John Elwood, Geo. Lawrence, J. A. Brown,
W. E. Thomas, I. D. Springdon, J. C. Hubbard, J. M.
Jennings, E. A. Ebbinghous, L. J. Noftzger, and S. V.
Hopkins. Rev. R. J. Parrott delivered the address of
invitation. General Harrison responded:
Comrades and Gentlemen—Your request is one that appeals to
me very strongly, and if it were single I should very promptly
accede to it, but, without being told, you will readily understand
that invitations of a kindred nature are coming to me every day,
presented by individual comrades and committees, but more frequently
by written communications.
I have felt that if I opened a door in this direction it would be
a very wide one, and I would either subject myself to the criticism
of having favored particular localities or particular organizations,
to the neglect of others having equal claims upon me, or
that I should be compelled to give to this pleasant duty—as it
would be if other duties did not crowd me—too much of my time.
I am, therefore, compelled to say to you that it will be impossible
for me to accept your invitation. But in doing this, I want to
thank you for the interest you have shown in my presence with
you, and I want especially to thank you for the spirit of comradeship
which brings you here. I am glad to know—and I have many
manifestations of it—that the peculiar position in which I am
placed as a candidate of a political party does not separate me
from the cordial friendship and comradeship of those who differ
with me politically. I should greatly regret it if it should be so.
We held our opinions and fought for them when the war was on,
and we will hold them now in affectionate comradeship and
mutual respect. I thank you for your visit.
The second delegation also came from Wabash County
and was under the leadership of William Hazen, Warren
Bigler, James P. Ross, James E. Still, Robert Weesner,
John Rodgers, Job Ridgway, and Joseph Ridgway, aged
83, of Wabash City. Their spokesman was Mr. Cowgill.
General Harrison, responding, said:
Mr. Cowgill and my Wabash County Friends—In 1860 I was
first a candidate before a convention for nomination to a public
office. Possibly some of those who are here to-day were in that
convention. Wabash County presented in the person of my friend,
and afterwards my comrade, Col. Charles Parrish, a candidate for
the office which I also sought, that of Reporter of Decisions of the
Supreme Court of the State of Indiana. We had a friendly yet
earnest contest before the convention, in which I succeeded. A
little later in the campaign, as I was attempting to render to my
party the services which my nomination seemed to imply, I visited
your good county and received at your hands a welcome so demon[44]strative
and cordial that I have always had a warm place in my
heart for your people. I was then almost a boy in years, and altogether
a boy in public life. Since then, in campaigns in which I
have had a personal interest, and in very many more wherein I
had only the general interest that you all had, it has been my
pleasure to visit your county, and I can testify to the earnest, intelligent
and devoted republicanism of Wabash County. You have
never faltered in any of the great struggles in which the party
has engaged; and I believe you have followed your party from a
high conviction that the purposes it set before us involved the best
interests of the country that you love, and to which you owe the
duty of citizens. I know how generously you contributed to the
army when your sons were called to defend it; and I know how,
since the war, you have endeavored to preserve and to conserve those
results which you fought for, and which made us again one people,
acknowledging, and I hope loving, one flag and one Constitution.
[Applause.] I want to thank you personally for this visit,
and I wish now, if it is your pleasure, to meet you individually.
Benton County, Indiana, contributed the third delegation
of the day, led by H. S. Travis, Clark Cook, B. Johnson,
Henry Taylor, Frank Knapp, and Robert L. Cox of
Fowler. They were presented by Col. A. D. Streight.
General Harrison said:
Colonel Streight, Fellow-citizens, and Comrades—I am very grateful
to you for this visit, and for the cordial terms in which your
spokesman has extended to me the congratulations of my friends
of Benton County. We have men who boast that they are cosmopolitans,
citizens of the world. I prefer to say that I am an American
citizen [applause], and I freely confess that American interests
have the first place in my regard. [Applause.] This is not
at all inconsistent with the recognition of that comity between
nations which is necessary to the peace of the world. It is not
inconsistent with that philanthropy which sympathizes with
human distress and oppression the world around. We have been
especially favored as an apart nation, separated from the conflicts,
jealousies, and intrigues of European courts, with a territory
embracing every feature of climate and soil, and resources capable
of supplying the wants of our people, of developing a wholesome
and gigantic national growth, and of spreading abroad, by their
full establishment here, the principles of human liberty and free
government. I do not think it inconsistent with the philanthropy[45]of the broadest teacher of human love that we should first have
regard for that family of which we are a part. Here in Indiana
the drill has just disclosed to us the presence of inexhaustible quantities,
in a large area of our State, of that new fuel which has the
facility of doing its own transportation, even to the furnace door,
and which leaves no residuum to be carried away when it has done
its work. This discovery has added an impulse to our growth.
It has attracted manufacturing industries from other States. Many
of our towns have received, and this city, we may hope, is yet to
receive, a great impulse in the development of their manufacturing
industries by reason of this discovery. It seems to me that
when this fuller development of our manufacturing interests, this
building up of a home market for the products of our farms, which
is sure to produce here that which has been so obvious elsewhere—a
great increase in the value of farms and farm products—is
opening to us the pleasant prospect of a rapid growth in wealth,
we should be slow to abandon that system of protective duties
which looks to the promotion and development of American industry
and to the preservation of the highest possible scale of wages
for the American workman. [Applause.] The development of
our country must be on those lines that benefit all our people.
Any development that does not reach and beneficially affect all our
people is not to be desired, and cannot be progressive or permanent.
Comrades, you still love the flag for which we fought. We are
preserved in God's providence to see the wondrous results of that
struggle in which you were engaged—a reunited country, a Constitution
whose authority is no longer disputed, a flag to which all
men bow. It has won respect at home; it should be respected
by all nations of the earth as an emblem and representative of a
people desiring peace with all men, but resolute in the determination
that the rights of all our citizens the world around shall be faithfully
respected. [Applause and cries of "That's right!"] I thank
you again for this visit, and, if it be your pleasure, and your committee
will so arrange, I will be glad to take you by the hand.
The fourth and largest delegation of the day came from
Boone County, numbering more than two thousand, led by
Captain Brown, S. S. Heath, A. L. Howard, W. H. H.
Martin, D. A. Rice, James Williamson, E. G. Darnell,
D. H. Olive, and Captain Arbigas of Lebanon, the last-named
veteran totally blind.
Another contingent was commanded by David O. Mason,[46]J. O. Hurst, J. N. Harmon, and Mr. Denny, an octogenarian,
all of Zionsville. Dr. D. C. Scull was orator for
the visitors. General Harrison said:
My Friends—The magnitude of this demonstration puts us at a
disadvantage in our purpose to entertain you hospitably, as we
had designed when notified of your coming. [Cheers.] I regret
that you must stand exposed to the heat of the sun, and that I
must be at the disadvantage of speaking from this high balcony
a few words of hearty thanks. I hope it may be arranged by the
committee so that I may yet have the opportunity of speaking to
you informally and individually. I am glad to notice your quick
interest in the campaign. I am sure that that interest is stimulated
by your devotion to the principles of government which you
conceive—rightly, as I believe—to be involved in this campaign.
[Applause.] I am glad to think that some of you, veterans of a
former political campaign to which your chairman has alluded,
and others of you, comrades in the great war for the Union, come
here to express some personal friendship for me. [Cheers.] But
I am sure that this campaign will be waged upon a plan altogether
above personal consideration. You are here as citizens of the State
of Indiana, proud of the great advancement the State has made
since those pioneer days when brave men from the East and South
entered our territory, blazing a pathway into the unbroken forest,
upon which civilization, intelligence, patriotism, and the love of
God has walked until we are conspicuous among the States as
a community desirous of social order, full of patriotic zeal, and
pledged to the promotion of that education which is to qualify the
coming generations to discharge honorably and well their duties
to the Government which we will leave in their hands. [Applause.]
You are here also as citizens of the United States, proud of that
arch of strength that binds together the States of this Union in
one great Nation. But citizenship has its duties as well as its
privileges. The first is that we give our energies and influence
to the enactment of just, equal, and beneficent laws. The second
is like unto it—that we loyally reverence and obey the will of the
majority enacted into law, whether we are of a majority or not
[applause]; the law throws the ægis of its protection over us all.
It stands sentinel about your country homes to protect you from
violence; it comes into our more thickly populated community
and speaks its mandate for individual security and public order.
There is an open avenue through the ballot-box for the modification
or repeal of laws which are unjust or oppressive. To the law[47]we bow with reverence. It is the one king that commands our
allegiance. We will change our king, when his rule is oppressive,
by these methods appointed, and crown his more liberal successor.
[Applause.] I thank you again, most cordially, for this visit, and
put myself in the hands of your committee that I may have the
privilege of meeting you individually.
Onethousand employees of the various railroads centreing
at Indianapolis, organized as a Harrison and Morton
Club—J. C. Finch, President, and A. D. Shaw, Marshal
of the occasion—called on General Harrison on the night
of July 13. Yardmaster Shaw was spokesman. General
Harrison replied:
Gentlemen—Your visit is very gratifying to me, and is full of
significance and interest. If I read aright the language of your
lanterns you have signalled the Republican train to go ahead.
[Applause and cries of "And she is going, too!"] You have concluded
that it is freighted with the interests and hopes of the
workingmen of America, and must have the right of way.
[Cheers and cries, "That's true!" and "We don't have to take
water on this trip, either!"] The train has been inspected; you
have given it your skilled and intelligent approval; the track has
been cleared and the switches spiked down. Have I read your signals
aright? [Cheers and cries of "You have!" and "There's no
flat wheels under this train!"] You represent, I understand, every
department of railroad labor—the office, the train, the shop, the
yard, and the road. You are the responsible and intelligent agents
of a vast system that, from a rude and clumsy beginning, has
grown to be as fine and well adapted as the parts of the latest locomotive
engine. The necessities and responsibilities of the business
of transportation have demanded a body of picked men—inventive
and skilful, faithful and courageous, sober and educated—and the
call has been answered, as your presence here to night demonstrates.
[Cheers.] Heroism has been found at the throttle and
the brake, as well as on the battle-field, and as well worthy of song
and marble. The trainman crushed between the platforms, who
used his last breath, not for prayer or message of love, but to say
to the panic-stricken who gathered around him, "Put out the red[48]light for the other train," inscribed his name very high upon the
shaft where the names of the faithful and brave are written. [A
voice: "Give him three cheers for that!" Great and enthusiastic
cheering.]
This early and very large gathering of Republican railroad men
suggests to me that you have opinions upon public questions
which are the product of your own observations and study. Some
one will say that the railroad business is a "non-protected industry,"
because it has to do with transportation and not with production.
But I only suggest what has already occurred to your
own minds when I say that is a very deceptive statement. You
know there is a relation between the wages of skilled and unskilled
labor as truly as between the prices of two grades of cotton cloth;
that if the first is cut down, the other, too, must come down.
[Cries of "That's just so!"] You know, also, that if labor is thrown
out of one line or avenue, by so much the more will the others
be crowded; that any policy that transfers production from the
American to the English or German shop works an injury to all
American workmen. [Great cheering.]
But, if it could be shown that your wages were unaffected by our
system of protective duties, I am sure that your fellowship with
your fellow toilers in other industries would lead you to desire, as
I do and always have, that our legislation may be of that sort that
will secure to them the highest possible prosperity [applause]—wages
that not only supply the necessities of life, but leave a substantial
margin for comfort and for the savings bank. No man's
wages should be so low that he cannot make provision in his days
of vigor for the incapacity of accident or the feebleness of old age.
[Great cheering.]
I am glad to be assured to-night that the principles of our party
and all things affecting its candidates can be safely left to the
thoughtful consideration of the American workingmen—they will
know the truth and accept it; they will reject the false and slanderous.
[Applause.]
And now let me say in conclusion that my door will always be
open to any of you who may desire to talk with me about anything
that interests you or that you think will interest me. I regret that
Mrs. Harrison is prevented by a temporary sickness from joining
with me in receiving you this evening. [Great cheering.]
A notablevisit was that of two hundred and twenty
members of the Lincoln Club, one of the most influential
political organizations of Cincinnati. They were escorted
by the First Regiment Band and led by their President,
Hon. A. C. Horton, with Col. James I. Quinton, Marshal
of the day. Among other prominent members in line were
Col. Leo Markbreit, Senator Richardson, Dr. M. M. Eaton,
Hon. Fred Pfeister, W. E. Hutton, Samuel Baily, Jr.,
Albert Mitchell, H. M. Zeigler, B. O. M. De Beck, W. T.
Porter, Harry Probasco, John Ferinbatch, Geo. B. Fox, J.
E. Strubbe, Dr. S. V. Wiseman, Joseph H. Thornton, C. H.
Rockwell, Lewis Wesner and Col. Moore. Hon. Drusin
Wulsin, Vice-President of the club, was the orator. General
Harrison, who had been ill for two days, replied:
Mr. Wulsin and Gentlemen of the Lincoln Club of Cincinnati—I
thank you very much for this visit, and I wish I found myself
in condition to talk to you with comfort to-night. I cannot, however,
let the occasion pass, in view of the kind terms in which
you have addressed me through your spokesman, without a word.
I feel as if these Hamilton County Republicans were my neighbors.
The associations of my early life were with that county,
and of my student life largely with the city of Cincinnati. You
did not need to state to me that Ohio supported John Sherman in
the convention at Chicago [laughter] simply to couple with it the
suggestion that it was a matter of State pride for you to do so.
I have known him long and intimately. It was my good fortune
for four years to sit beside him in the Senate of the United States.
I learned there to value him as a friend and to honor him as a
statesman. There were reasons altogether wider than the State of
Ohio why you should support John Sherman in the convention.
[Applause and cries of "Good!" "Good!"] His long and faithful
service to his country and to the Republican party, his distinguished
ability, his fidelity as a citizen, all entitled him to your
faithful support; and I beg to assure you, as I have assured him
both before and since the convention, that I did not and would
not, upon any consideration, have made any attempt against him
upon the Ohio delegation. [Applause.] I have known of your[50]club as an organization that early set the example of perpetuating
itself—an example that I rejoice to see is being largely followed
now throughout our country. If these principles which are being
urged by our party in these contests are worthy of our campaign
enthusiasm and ardor, they are worthy to be thought of and advocated
in the period of inter-campaign. They affect the business
interests of our country, and their full adoption and perpetuation,
we believe, will bring prosperity to all our individual and social
and community interests. Therefore, I think it wise that in those
times, when men's minds are more open to conviction and are
readier of access, you should press upon the attention of your neighbors
through your club organizations these principles to which you
and I have given the allegiance of our minds and the devotion of
our hearts. I thank you again for this visit. We are glad that
you have come; therefore, I welcome you, not only as Republicans,
but as friends. [Applause.]
Howard Countysent a delegation of six hundred citizens
this day, led by Major A. N. Grant. The Lincoln
League Club of Kokomo was commanded by its President,
John E. Moore. Other prominent citizens in the
delegation were Hon. J. N. Loop, J. A. Kautz, J. E. Vaile,
John Ingalls, W. E. Blackledge, B. B. Johnson, J. B. Landen,
Dr. James Wright, H. E. McMonigal, Edward
Klum, Charles Pickett, and A. R. Ellis. Rev. Father Rayburn,
a voter in the campaign of 1840, was spokesman.
General Harrison, in reply, said:
Father Rayburn and my Howard County Friends—I think I may
accept this demonstration as evidence that the action of the Republican
convention at Chicago has been accepted with resignation
by the Republicans of Howard County. [Loud cheers.] You
are the favored citizens of a favored county. Your county has
been conspicuous among the counties of this State for its enterprise
and intelligence. You have been favored with a kindly and
generous soil, cultivated by an intelligent and educated class of
farmers. Hitherto you have chiefly drawn your wealth from the
soil. You have had in the city of Kokomo an enterprising and[51]thrifty county town. You have been conspicuous for your interest
and devotion to the cause of education—for your interest in bringing
forward the coming generations well equipped for the duties
of citizenship. I congratulate you to-day that a new era of prosperity
has opened for your county in the discovery of this new
and free fuel to which Mr. Rayburn has alluded. A source of great
wealth has been opened to your people. You have already begun
to realize what it is to your county, though your expectations
have hardly grasped what it will be when the city of Kokomo and
your other towns have reached the full development which will
follow this discovery. You will then all realize—the citizens of
that prosperous place as well as the farmers throughout the county—the
advantage of having a home market for the products of your
farms. [Cheers.] You may not notice this so much in the appreciation
of the prices of the staple products of your farms, but you
will notice it in the expansion of the market for those more perishable
products which cannot reach a distant market and must
be consumed near home. Is it not, then, time for you, as thoughtful
citizens, whatever your previous political affiliations may have
been, to consider the question, "What legislation will most promote
the development of the manufacturing interests of your
county and enlarge the home market for the products of your
farm?" I shall not enter upon a discussion of this question; it is
enough to state it, and leave it to your own intelligent consideration.
[Cheers.]
Let me thank you again for this kindly visit, and beg you to
excuse any more extended remarks, and to give me now an opportunity
of thanking each of you personally for the kind things
your chairman has said in your behalf.
Illinoissent three large delegations this date from
Springfield, Jacksonville and Monticello. Conspicuous in
the column was the famous "Black Eagle" Club of Springfield,
led by its President, Sam H. Jones, and the Lincoln
Club, commanded by Capt. John C. Cook.
In the Springfield delegation were twenty-one original
Whigs who voted for Gen. Wm. Henry Harrison, among
them Jeriah Bonham, who wrote the first editorial—Nov.[52]8, 1858—proposing the candidacy of Abraham Lincoln
for President. Others among the prominent visitors from
Springfield were: Col. James T. King, C. A. Vaughan,
Major James A. Connelly, Paul Selby, Hon. David T.
Littler, Jacob Wheeler, Gen. Charles W. Pavey, Robert
J. Oglesby, Ira Knight, C. P. Baldwin, James H. Kellogg,
Alexander Smith, Geo. Jameson, Augustus C. Ayers,
Jacob Strong, Dr. F. C. Winslow, Fred Smith, Charles T.
Hawks, Hon. Henry Dement, Col. Theo. Ewert, Jacob
Bunn, J. C. Matthews, J. R. Stewart, H. W. Beecher,
Andrew J. Lester, Dr. Gurney, and Howes Yates, brother
of the great war Governor.
The Jacksonville visitors were represented by Hon. Fred
H. Rowe, ex-Mayor Tomlinson, Judge T. B. Orear, J. B.
Stevenson, Dr. Goodrich, Professor Parr of Illinois College,
J. W. Davenport, and Thomas Rapp.
Attorney-General Hunt spoke on behalf of all the visitors.
General Harrison's reply was one of his happiest
speeches. He said:
General Hunt and my Illinois Friends—I thank you for this cordial
expression of your interest in Republican success. I thank
you for the kindly terms in which your spokesman has conveyed
to me the assurance, not only of your political support, but of
your personal confidence and respect.
The States of Indiana and Illinois are neighbors, geographically.
The river that for a portion of its length constitutes the boundary
between our States is not a river of division. Its tendency seems
to be, in these times when so many things are "going dry"
[cheers], rather to obliterate than to enlarge the obstruction
between us. [Cheers.] But I rejoice to know that we are not
only geographically neighbors, but that Indiana and Illinois have
been neighborly in the high sentiments and purposes which have
characterized their people. I rejoice to know that the same high
spirit of loyalty and devotion to the country that characterized the
State of Illinois in the time when the Nation made its appeal to
the brave men of all the States to rescue its flag and its Constitution
from the insurrection which had been raised against them
was equally characteristic of Indiana—that the same great impulse
swept over your State that swept over ours—that Richard Yates[53]of Illinois [cheers] and Oliver P. Morton of Indiana [prolonged
cheers] stood together in the fullest sympathy and co-operation in
the great plans they devised to augment and re-enforce the Union
armies in the field and to suppress and put down treasonable conspiracies
at home.
As Americans and as Republicans we are glad that Illinois has
contributed so many and such conspicuous names to that galaxy
of great Americans and great Republicans whose deeds have been
written on the scroll of eternal fame. I recall that it was on the
soil of Illinois that Lovejoy died—a martyr to free speech. [Cries
of "Hear!" "Hear!"] He was the forerunner of Abraham Lincoln.
He died, but his protest against human slavery lived.
Another great epoch in the march of liberty found on the soil of
Illinois the theatre of its most influential event. I refer to that
high debate in the presence of your people, but before the world,
in which Douglas won the senatorship and Lincoln the presidency
and immortal fame. [Loud cheers.]
But Lincoln's argument and Lincoln's proclamation must be
made good upon the battle-field—and again your State was conspicuous.
You gave us Grant and Logan [prolonged cheers] and
a multitude of less notable, but not less faithful, soldiers who
underwrote the proclamation with their swords. [Cheers.] I
congratulate you to-day that there has come out of this early agitation—out
of the work of Lovejoy, the disturber; out of the great
debate of 1858, and out of the war for the Union, a Nation without
a slave [cheers]—that not the shackles of slavery only have been
broken, but that the scarcely less cruel shackles of prejudice which
bound every black man in the North have also been unbound.
We are glad to know that the enlightened sentiment of the
South to-day unites with us in our congratulations that slavery
has been abolished. They have come to realize, and many of their
best and greatest men to publicly express, the thought that the abolition
of slavery has opened a gateway of progress and material development
to the South that was forever closed against her people
while domestic slavery existed.
We send them the assurance that we desire the streams of their
prosperity shall flow bank full. We would lay upon their people
no burdens that we do not willingly bear ourselves. They will not
think it amiss if I say that the burden which rests willingly upon
our shoulders is a faithful obedience to the Constitution and the
laws. A manly assertion by each of his individual rights, and a
manly concession of equal right to every other man, is the boast
and the law of good citizenship.
Let me thank you again and ask you to excuse me from further
public speech. I now ask an opportunity to meet my Illinois
friends personally [Loud and prolonged cheers.]
The second speech of the day was delivered at 9 o'clock
at night to an enthusiastic delegation of fifteen hundred
Republicans from Shelbyville, Shelby County, led by Hon.
H. C. Gordon, J. Walter Elliott, C. H. Campbell, James
T. Caughey, C. X. Matthews, J. Richey, E. S. Powell,
E. E. Elliott, L. S. Limpus, Orland Young, and Norris
Winterowd. Judge J. C. Adams was their spokesman.
General Harrison touched upon civil service; he said:
Judge Adams and my Shelby County Friends—This is only a
new evidence of your old friendliness. My association with the
Republicans of Shelby County began in 1855, when I was a very
young man and a still younger politician. In that year, if I
recollect right, I canvassed every township of your county in the
interest of Mr. Campbell, who was then a candidate for County
Clerk. Since then I have frequently visited your county, and have
always been received with the most demonstrative evidence of your
friendship. But in addition to these political associations, which
have given me an opportunity to observe and to admire the steadfastness,
the courage, the unflinching faithfulness of the Republicans
of Shelby County [cheers], I have another association with
your county, which I cherish with great tenderness and affection.
Two companies of the Seventieth Indiana were made up of your
brave boys: Company B, commanded by Captain Sleeth, and Company
F, commanded by Captain Endsley, who still lives among
you. [Cheers.] Many of the surviving members of these companies
still dwell among you. Many others are in the far West,
and they, too, from their distant homes have sent me a comrade's
greeting. I recollect a little story of Peach Tree Creek that may
interest you. When the Seventieth Indiana, then under command
of Col. Sam Merrill, swung up from the reserve into the front line
to meet the enemy's charge, the adjutant-general of the brigade,
who had been directed to order the advance, reported that the left of
the Seventieth Indiana was exposed. He said he had ordered the
bluff old captain of Company F, who was commanding the left
wing, to reserve his left in order to cover his flank, but that the
old hickory had answered him with an expletive—which I have no
doubt he has repented of—that he "could not see it," that he proposed[55]that his end of the regiment should get to the top of that hill as
quick as the other end. [Prolonged cheers.]
We will venerate the memory of the dead of these companies and
their associate companies in other commands who gave up their
lives in defence of the flag.
But I turn aside from these matters of personal recollection to
say a word of more general concern. We are now at the opening
of a presidential campaign, and I beg to suggest to you, as citizens
of the State of Indiana, that there is always in such campaigns
a danger to be avoided, viz. That the citizen may overlook the
important local and State interests which are also involved in the
campaign. I beg, therefore, to suggest that you turn your minds
not only to the consideration of the questions connected with the
national legislation and national administration, but that you
think deeply and well of those things that concern our local affairs.
There are some such now presented to you that have to do with the
honor and prosperity of the State.
There are some questions that ought not to divide parties, but
upon which all good men ought to agree. I speak of only one.
The great benevolent institutions—the fruit of our Christian civilization—endowed
by the bounty of the State, maintained by public
taxes, and intended for the care and education of the disabled
classes of our community, ought to be lifted above all party influences,
benefit or control. [Cheers.] I believe you can do nothing
that will more greatly enhance the estimation in which the
State of Indiana is held by her sister States than to see to it that a
suitable, well-regulated, and strict civil service is provided for the
administration of the benevolent and penal institutions of the State
of Indiana. I will not talk longer; I thank you for this magnificent
evidence that I am still held in kindly regard by the Republicans
of Shelby County, and bid you good-night. [Cheers.]
Onthe twenty-fourth of July Champaign County, Illinois,
contributed a large delegation under the direction of
Hon. F. K. Robeson, Z. Riley, H. W. Mahan, and W. M.
Whindley. Their parade was conspicuous for the number
of log-cabins, cider-barrels, coons, eagles, and other campaign
emblems.
Prominent members of the delegation were Rev. I. S.[56]Mahan, H. M. Dunlap, F. M. McKay, J. J. McClain, James
Barnes, Rev. John Henry, H. S. Clark, M. S. Goodrich, A.
W. McNichols, Capt. J. H. Sands and three veterans of
1836, the Rev. S. K. Reed, Stephen Freeman, and W. B.
Downing. Hon. Frank M. Wright delivered the address
on behalf of the visitors. General Harrison responded:
My Friends—I feel very conscious of the compliment which is
conveyed by your presence here to-day. You come as citizens of an
adjoining State to manifest, as your spokesman has said, some personal
respect for me, but much more, I think—your interest in the
pending contention of principles before the people of the United
States. It is fortunate that you are allowed, not only to express
your interest by such popular gatherings as these, but that you
will be called upon individually, after the debate is over, to settle
this contention by your ballots. An American political canvass,
when we look through the noise and tinsel that accompanies it,
presents a scene of profound interest to the student of government.
The theory upon which our Government is builded is that every
qualified elector shall have an equal influence at the ballot-box with
every other. Our Constitutions do not recognize fractional votes;
they do not recognize the right of one man to count one and a half
in the determination of public questions. It is wisely provided
that whatever differences may exist in intelligence, in wealth, or
in any other respect, at the ballot-box there shall be absolute
equality. No interest can be truly subserved, whether local or
general, by any invasion of this great principle. The wise work
of our fathers in constructing this Government will stand all tests
of internal dissension and revolution, and all tests of external assault,
if we can only preserve a pure, free ballot. [Applause.]
Every citizen who is a patriot ought to lend his influence to that
end, by promoting necessary reforms in our election laws and by
a watchful supervision of the processes of our popular elections.
We ought to elevate in thought and practice the free suffrage that
we enjoy. As long as it shall be held by our people to be the jewel
above price, as long as each for himself shall claim its free exercise
and shall generously and manfully insist upon an equally free exercise
of it by every other man, our Government will be preserved
and our development will not find its climax until the purpose of
God in establishing this Government shall have spread throughout
the world—governments "of the people, by the people, and for the
people." [Cheers.]
You will not expect, nor would it be proper, that I should follow
the line of your spokesman's remarks, or even allude to some things
that he has alluded to; but I will not close without one word of
compliment and comradeship for the soldiers of Illinois. [Applause.]
I do not forget that many of them, like Logan—that fearless and
first of volunteer soldiers—at the beginning of the war were not
in sympathy with the Republican national administration. You
had a multitude of soldiers besides Logan, one of whom has been
immortalized in poetry—Sergeant Tillman Joy—who put their
politics by "to keep till the war was through;" and many, I may
add, like Logan, when they got home found new party associations.
But we do not limit our praise of the loyalty and faithfulness
of your soldiers to any party lines, for we realize that there
were good soldiers who did resume their ante-war politics when
they came back from the army. To such we extend a comrade's
hand always, and the free and untrammelled exercise of his political
choice shall not bar our comradeship. It happened during the
war that three Illinois regiments were for some time under my
command. I had opportunity to observe their perfection in drill,
their orderly administration of camp duties, and, above all, the
brilliant courage with which they met the enemy. And, in complimenting
them, I take them as the type of that great army that Illinois
sent out for the preservation of the Union and the Constitution.
Let me thank you again for your friendly visit to-day; and if any
of you desire a nearer acquaintance, I shall be glad to make that
acquaintance now.
Twothousand visitors from Edgar and Coles counties,
Illinois, paid their respects to the Republican nominee
this day.
The excursion was under the auspices of the John A.
Logan Club of Paris, Charles P. Fitch, President. There
were many farmers in the delegation, also eighty-two
veterans of the campaign of 1840, and the watchwords of
the day were "Old Tippecanoe and young Tippecanoe."
The reception took place at University Park, notable from
this time forward for many similar events. Prominent
among the visitors were Geo. F. Howard, Capt. F. M. Rude,[58]J. W. Howell, E. R. Lodge, Capt. J. C. Bessier, M. Hackett,
James Stewart, and Mayor J. M. Bell of Paris; C. G. Peck
and J. H. Clark of Mattoon; and Hon. John W. Custor of
Benton. State Senator George E. Bacon delivered the
congratulatory address. General Harrison replied:
Senator Bacon and my Illinois Friends—Some of my home
friends have been concerned lest I should be worn out by the frequent
coming of these delegations. I am satisfied from what I see
before me to-day that the rest of Illinois is here [laughter], and the
concern of my friends will no longer be excited by the coming of
Illinois delegations. [A voice, "We are all here!"] That you
should leave the pursuits of your daily life—the farm, the office, and
the shop—to make this journey gives me the most satisfactory evidence
that your hearts are enlisted in this campaign. I am glad
to welcome here to-day the John A. Logan Club of Paris. You
have chosen a name that you will not need to drop, whatever
mutations may come in politics, so long as there shall be a party
devoted to the flag and to the Constitution, and pledged to preserve
the memories of the great deeds of those who died that the Constitution
might be preserved and the flag honored. [Applause.]
General Logan was indeed, as your spokesman has said, "the typical
volunteer soldier." With him loyalty was not a sentiment; it
was a passion that possessed his whole nature.
When the civil war broke out no one did more than he to solidify
the North in defence of the Government. He it was who said that
all parties and all platforms must be subordinated to the defence of
the Government against unprovoked assault. [A voice, "That's
just what he said!"] In the war with Mexico, as a member of the
First Illinois Regiment, and afterwards as the commander of the
Thirty-first Illinois in the civil war, he gave a conspicuous example
of what an untrained citizen could do in the time of public
peril. In the early fight at Donelson he, with the First Illinois
Brigade, successfully resisted the desperate assaults that were made
upon his line; twice wounded, he yet refused to leave the field.
The courage of that gallant brigade called forth from a Massachusetts
poet the familiar lines:
[Applause.] He commanded successively brigades, divisions, corps
and armies, and fought them with unvarying success. I greet these[59]veterans of the campaign of 1840. You recall the pioneer days, the
log cabin days of the West, the days when muddy highways were
the only avenues of travel and commerce. You have seen a marvellous
development. The State of your adoption has become a
mighty commonwealth; you have seen it crossed and recrossed by
railroads, bringing all your farms into easy communication with
distant markets; you have seen the schoolhouse and church brought
into every neighborhood; you have seen this country rocked in the
cradle of war; you have seen it emerge from that dreadful trial
and enter upon an era of prosperity that seems to surpass all that
had gone before.
To these young men who will, for the first time this year, take
part as citizens in determining a presidential election, I suggest
that you have become members of a party of precious memories.
There has been nothing in the history of the Republican party,
nothing in the platform of principles that it has proclaimed, that
is not calculated to stir the high impulses of your young hearts.
The Republican party has walked upon high paths. It has set before
it ever the maintenance of the Union, the honor of its flag,
and the prosperity of our people. It has been an American party
[great cheering] in that it has set American interests always to
the front.
My friends of the colored organization, I greet you as Republicans
to-day. I recall the time when you were disfranchised; when
your race were slaves; when the doors of our institutions of learning
were closed against you, and even admittance to many of our
Northern States was denied you. You have read the story of your
disfranchisement, of the restoration to you of the common rights
of men. Read it again; read the story of the bitter and bigoted
opposition that every statute and constitutional amendment framed
for your benefit encountered. What party befriended you when
you needed friends? What party has stood always as an obstruction
to the development and enlargement of your rights as citizens?
When you have studied these questions well you will be able to
determine not only where your gratitude is due, but where the
hopes of your race lie. [Cheers.]
FromClay County, Indiana, came three thousand coal-miners
and others, this day, under the auspices of the
Harrison Miners' Club of Brazil. Their parade, with
dozens of unique banners and devices, was one of the most
imposing of the campaign. Prominent in the delegation
were Dr. Joseph C. Gifford, L. A. Wolfe, Jacob Herr, P.
H. Penna, John F. Perry, C. P. Eppert, E. C. Callihan, W.
H. Lowery, Rev. John Cox, A. F. Bridges, William Sporr,
Carl Thomas, Geo. F. Fuller, John Gibbons, Sam'l Blair,
Thomas Washington, and Judge Coffey of Brazil. Major
William Carter and Edward Wilton, a miner, delivered
addresses; Rob't L. McCowan spoke for the colored members
of the delegation. General Harrison, in response, said:
Gentlemen and Friends from Clay County—I thank you for this
enthusiastic demonstration of your interest. I am glad to be assured
by those who have spoken for you to-day that you have
brought here, and desire to evidence, some personal respect for
me; but this demonstration has relation, I am sure, rather to principles
than to men. You come as representatives of the diversified
interests of your county. You are fortunate in already possessing
diversified industries. You have not only agriculture, but the
mine and factory which provide a home market for the products
of your farms. You come here, as I understand, from all these
pursuits, to declare that in your opinion your interests, as farmers,
as miners, as mechanics, as tradesmen, are identified with the
maintenance of the doctrine of protection to American industries,
and the preservation of the American market for American products.
[Cheers.] Some resort to statistics to show that the condition
of the American workman is better than that of the workman
of any other country. I do not care now to deal with statistics.
One fact is enough for me. The tide of emigration from all European
countries has been and is towards our shores. The gates of
Castle Garden swing inward. They do not swing outward to any
American laborer seeking a better country than this. [Cries of
"Never!"]
My countrymen, these men, who have toiled at wages in other
lands that barely sustained life, and opened no avenue of promise
to them or to their children, know the good land of hope as well as[61]the swallow knows the land of summer. [Applause.] They testify
that here there are better conditions, wider and more hopeful prospects
for workmen than in any other land. The next suggestion
I have to make is this: that the more work there is to do in this
country the higher the wages that will be paid for the doing of it.
[Applause.] I speak to men who know that when the product of
their toil is in demand in the market, when buyers are seeking it,
wages advance; but when the market for your products is depressed,
and the manufacturer is begging for buyers, then wages go down.
Is it not clear, then, that that policy which secures the largest
amount of work to be done at home is the policy which will secure
to laboring men steady employment and the best wages? [Cheers
and cries of "That is right!"] A policy which will transfer work
from our mines and our factories to foreign mines and foreign
factories inevitably tends to the depression of wages here. [Applause
and cries of "That is true!"] These are truths that do
not require profound study.
Having here a land that throws about the workingman social
and political conditions more favorable than are found elsewhere,
if we can preserve also more favorable industrial conditions we
shall secure the highest interests of our working classes. [Great
cheering.] What, after all, is the best evidence of a nation's prosperity,
and the best guarantee of social order, if it is not an
intelligent, thrifty, contented working class? Can we look for
contentment if the workman is only able to supply his daily necessities
by his daily toil, but is not able in the vigor of youth to lay
up a store against old age? A condition of things that compels
the laborer to contemplate want, as an incident of sickness or disability,
is one that tends to social disorder. [Applause and cries
of "That is so!"] You are called upon now to consider these
problems. I will not debate them in detail, others will. I can
only commend them to your thoughtful consideration. Think upon
them; conclude for yourselves what policy as to our tariff legislation
will best subserve your interests, the interests of your families,
and the greatness and glory of the Nation of which you are citizens.
[Cheers.]
My colored friends who are here to-day, the emancipation of the
slave removed from our country that which tended to degrade labor.
All men are now free; you are thrown upon your own resources;
the avenues of intelligence and of business success are open to all.
I notice that the party to which we belong has been recently reproached
by the suggestion that we have not thoroughly protected
the colored man in the South. This has been urged as a reason[62]why the colored people should join the Democratic party. I beg
the gentlemen who urge that plea to answer this question: Against
whom is it that the Republican party has been unable, as you say,
to protect your race? [Applause and cries of "Good! Good!"]
Thanking you again for this demonstration and for your friendly
expressions, I will, if it be your pleasure, drop this formal method
of communication and take my Clay County friends by the hand.
[Great cheering.]
The Clay County miners had not concluded their reception
before a delegation of several hundred arrived from
Bloomington, Illinois, headed by the John A. Logan Club,
under the lead of General Geo. F. Dick, William Maddox,
John A. Fullwiller, M. B. Herr, and Dr. F. C. Vandervoort.
Their orator was Dr. W. H. H. Adams, formerly President
of the Illinois Wesleyan University. General Harrison,
replying, said:
My Bloomington Friends—When I received here, yesterday, a
very large delegation from Illinois, I expressed the opinion that they
must be the "rest of the people of Illinois that had not been here before."
I suppose you are a remnant that could not get into line yesterday.
I thank you as I have thanked those who preceded you, for the
interest which the people of your State have manifested, and for your
cordial fellowship with Indiana. I will not discuss the issues of the
campaign. You have already thought upon the platforms of the
two parties. Some of you have perhaps taken your politics by inheritance.
It is now a good time to review the situation. We
have the same interests as citizens. Let us all consider the history
and declarations of the great parties and thoughtfully conclude
which is more likely to promote the general interests of our people.
That is the test. The British Parliament does not legislate with a
view to advance the interests of the people of the United States.
[Cries of "No, never!"] They—rightly—have in view the interest
of that empire over which Victoria reigns. Should we not, also,
as Americans, in our legislation, consider first the interests of our
people? We invite the thoughtful attention of those who have
hitherto differed with us as to these questions. Our interests are
bound together. That which promotes the prosperity of the community
in which you dwell in kindly association with your Democratic
friends promotes your interests and theirs alike. Thanking
you for this visit, I will ask you to excuse me from further speech.
[Applause.]
Kosciusko County, Indiana, contributed two thousand
visitors on the twenty-seventh of July, under the leadership
of Capt. C. W. Chapman, James H. Cisney, Reub. Williams,
Louis Ripple, J. E. Stevenson, Wm. B. Wood, T.
Loveday, John Wynant, Charles Adams, Nelson Richhart,
Captain A. S. Miller, Clinton Lowe, P. L. Runyon, James
A. Cook, Frank McGee, and John Burbaker, all of Warsaw.
Judge H. S. Biggs made the presentation address.
General Harrison replied as follows:
Mr. Biggs and my Kosciusko County Friends—I did not need to
be assured of the friendliness of the Republicans of your county.
It has been evidenced too many times in the past. Before the
convention at Chicago the Republicans of your county gave me the
assurance that my nomination would meet the cordial approbation
of your people. I am glad to welcome you here to-day, and regret
that your journey hither has been so tedious. You are proud of
the State in which you dwell; proud of her institutions of learning;
proud of her great benevolent institutions, which I notice by
one of these banners you have pledged yourselves to protect from
party spoliation and degradation. [Applause and cries of "Good!
Good!"] But while we have much that is cause for congratulation,
we are not enjoying that full equality of civil rights in the State of
Indiana to which we are entitled.
Our Government is a representative government. Delegates in
Congress and members of our State Senate and House of Representatives
are apportioned to districts, and the National and State Constitutions
contemplate that these districts shall be equal, so that, as
far as possible, each citizen shall have, in his district, the same potency
in choosing a Member of Congress or of our State Legislature
as is exercised by a voter in any other district. We do not to-day
have that condition of things. The apportionment of our State for
legislative and congressional purposes is unfair, and is known to be
unfair to all men. No candid Democrat can defend it as a fair
apportionment. It was framed to be unequal, it was designed to
give to the citizens of favored districts an undue influence. It was
intended to discriminate against Republicans. It is not right that
it should be so. I hope the time is coming, and has even now
arrived, when the great sense of justice which possesses our people[64]will teach men of all parties that party success is not to be promoted
at the expense of an injustice to any of our citizens. [Applause.]
These things take hold of government. If we would
maintain that respect for the law which is necessary to social order,
our people must understand that each voter has his full and equal
influence in determining what the law shall be. I hope this question
will not be forgotten by our people until we have secured in
Indiana a fair apportionment for legislative and congressional purposes.
[Cheers.] When the Republicans shall secure the power of
making an apportionment, I hope and believe that the experiment
of seeking a party advantage by a public injustice will not be
repeated. [Great applause and cries of "Good! Good!"]
There are some other questions affecting suffrage, too, to which
my attention has, from circumstances, been particularly attracted.
There are in the Northwest several Territories organized under
public law with defined boundaries. They have been filled up with
the elect of our citizens—the brave, the enterprising and intelligent
young men from all the States. Many of the veterans of the late
war have sought under our beneficent homestead law new homes
in the West. Several of these Territories have been for years possessed
of population, wealth, and all the requisites for admission
as States. When the Territory of Indiana took the census which
was the basis for its petition for admission to the Union we had
less than 64,000 people; we had only thirteen organized counties.
In the Territory of South Dakota there are nearly half a million
people. For years they have been knocking for admission to the
sisterhood of States.
They are possessed of all the elements of an organized and stable
community. It has more people, more miles of railroad, more post-offices,
more churches, more banks, more wealth, than any Territory
ever possessed when it was admitted to the Union. It surpasses
some of the States in these particulars. Four years ago, when a
President was to be chosen, the Committee on Territories in the
Senate, to meet the objection of our Democratic friends that the
admission of Dakota would add a disturbing element to the Electoral
College, provided in the Dakota bill that its organization
should be postponed until after the election; now four years more
have rolled around, and our people are called again to take part
in a presidential election, and the intelligent and patriotic Dakota
people are again to be deprived of any participation. I ask you
why this is so? Is not the answer obvious? [Cries of "Yes!"]
They are disfranchised and deprived of their appropriate influence
in the Electoral College only because the prevailing sentiment in[65]the Territory is Republican. [Cries of "That's right!" "That's the
reason!"] The cause of Washington Territory is more recent but
no less flagrant. If we appropriately express sympathy with the
cause of Irish home rule, shall we not also demand home rule for
Dakota and Washington, and insist that their disfranchisement
shall not be prolonged? [Applause.] There is a sense of justice, of
fairness, that will assert itself against these attempts to coin party
advantage out of public wrong. The day when men can be disfranchised
or shorn of their political power for opinion's sake must
have an end in our country. [Cheers.] I thank you again for
your call, and if you will observe the arrangement which has been
suggested I will be glad to take each of you by the hand. I know
that some of you are fasting, and therefore we will shorten these
exercises in order that you may obtain needed refreshments.
[Cheers.]
Jennings County, Indiana, was represented on the
above date by a large delegation under the auspices of the
Harrison and Morton Clubs of Vernon and North Vernon.
The leaders of their delegation were Fred H. Nauer, J.
C. Cope, C. E. Wagner, W. G. Norris, Dr. T. C. Bachelder,
T. A. Pearce, P. C. McGannon, and Prof. Amos Saunders.
Hon. Frank E. Little, President of the North Vernon
Club, delivered the address. General Harrison, in response,
said:
My Friends—It is a source of regret to me that I can do so little
to compensate those who take the trouble to visit me. I need
hardly say to you that I very highly appreciate this evidence of
your friendliness and also the kind words which you have addressed
to me through your representative. Jennings County has a history
of which it may well be proud. It has contributed to the city of
Indianapolis some of our most distinguished and useful men.
Your spokesman has not exaggerated the fidelity and steadfastness
of the people of your county. Your republicanism has been as
straight as the walls of your cliffs [applause] and as solid as the
limestone with which your hills are buttressed. [Applause.]
You have said to me that you are in favor of a free and equal
ballot the country over. We are so related in our Government[66]that any disturbance of the suffrage anywhere directly affects us
all. Our Members of Congress pass upon questions that are as wide
as the domain over which our flag floats. Therefore, our interest
in the choice of these representatives is not limited to our own
districts. If the debate upon public questions is to be of value
the voter must be free to register his conclusion. The tribunal
which is to pronounce upon the argument must not be coerced.
You have said to me that you favor the doctrine of protection.
The Republican party stands for the principles of protection. We
believe in the preservation of the American market for our American
producers and workmen. [Applause and cries of "That's it!"]
We believe that the development of home manufactures tends
directly to promote the interest of agriculture by furnishing a
home market for the products of the farm, and thus emancipating
our farmers from the transportation charges which they must pay
when their products seek distant markets. [Applause.]
We are confronted now with a Treasury surplus. Our position
is exceptional. We are not seeking, as many other nations are,
new subjects of taxation, new sources of revenue. Our quest is
now how, wisely, to reduce our national revenue. The attempt
has been made to use this surplus as a lever to overturn the protective
system. The promoters of this scheme, while professing a
desire to diminish the surplus, have acted as if their purpose was
to increase it in part by opposing necessary and legitimate appropriations.
I agree that there is danger that a surplus may promote
extravagance, but I do not find myself in sympathy with that
policy that denies the appropriation necessary for the proper defence
of our people, and for the convenient administration of our
public affairs throughout the country, in order that the threat of a
surplus may be used for a sinister purpose. I believe that in reducing
our revenues to the level of our needful and proper expenditures
we can and should continue to favor and protect our
industries. I do not like to entrust this work to those who declare
protective duties to be vicious "legalized robbery." The Republican
party has by its legislation shown its capacity wisely to reduce our
revenues and at the same time to preserve the American system.
[Applause.] It can be trusted to do the work that remains, and to
do it wisely. [Applause.]
Thelast delegation in July came from Henry County,
Indiana, two thousand strong, headed by C. S. Hernley,
W. H. Elliott, Hon. Eugene Bundy, Judge Mark E. Forkner,
A. Abernathy, A. D. Osborn, O. P. M. Hubbard, David
Luellen, O. B. Mooney, and Captain Armstrong, all of
New Castle. Gen. William H. Grose was their orator.
In his response General Harrison at this early day out-lined
his views upon reciprocal trade relations with South
American nations—views which were afterwards successfully,
and with great profit to our people, put into effect
through the celebrated reciprocity treaties with Brazil,
Venezuela and other countries.
Repeated outbursts of enthusiasm punctured his address.
He said:
Comrade Grose and my Henry County Friends—If we have here
any discouraged statesman who takes a despondent view of the
future of the country, I think he would recover his hopefulness if
he could look, once in a while, into the face of an audience like this.
[Applause.]
You came from a county that has been a bulwark of republicanism
since the party was organized. You had an early element
in your population that has done much to promote your material
interests, and, much more, to lift up those principles that relate
to the purity of the home and to the freedom of men. The Friends,
who have been and are so large and so influential an element in
your population and in the counties surrounding it, are a people
notable for the purity of their home life and for their broad and
loving sympathy with all men. They were the early enemies of
slavery, and they have always naturally been the strength of the
Republican party in the community where they reside. Your
spokesman has expressed your continued interest in the party to
which some of you gave the confidence of your matured powers
and some of you the early devotion of your youth. The Republican
party has accomplished for the country a great work in the
brief period of its life. It preserved the Nation by a wise, courageous
and patriotic administration. What that means for you
and your posterity, what it means for the world, no man can tell.[68]It would have been a climax of disaster for the world if this Government
of the people had perished. The one unsolved experiment
of free government was solved. We have demonstrated the capacity
of the people and a citizen soldiery to maintain inviolate
the unity of the Republic. [Applause.]
There remain now, fortunately, chiefly economic questions to
be thought of and to be settled. We refer to the great war, not
in any spirit of hostility to any section or any class of men, but
only because we believe it to be good for the whole country that
loyalty and fidelity to the flag should be honored. [Great applause.]
It was one of the great triumphs of the war, a particular in
which our war was distinguished from all other wars of history,
that we brought the vanquished into the same full, equal citizenship
under the law that we maintained for ourselves.
In all the addresses which have been made to me there has been
some reference to the great question of the protection of our American
industries. I see it upon the banners which you carry. Our
party stands unequivocally, without evasion or qualification, for
the doctrine that the American market shall be preserved for our
American producers. [Great applause.] We are not attracted by
the suggestion that we should surrender to foreign producers the
best market in the world. Our sixty millions of people are the best
buyers in the world, and they are such because our working classes
receive the best wages.But we do not mean to be content with our
own market. We should seek to promote closer and more friendly
commercial relations with the Central and South American States.[Applause.] And what is essential to that end? Regular mails
are the first condition of commerce.
The merchant must know when his order will be received, and
when his consignment will be returned, or there can be no trade
between distant communities. What we need, therefore, is the
establishment of American steamship lines between our ports and
the ports of Central and South America. [Applause.] Then it
will no longer be necessary that an American minister, commissioned
to an American State, shall take an English ship to Liverpool
to find another English ship to carry him to his destination.
We are not to be frightened by the use of that ugly word "subsidy."
[Laughter.] We should pay to American steamship lines a liberal
compensation for carrying our mails, instead of turning them over
to British tramp steamships. [Applause.] We do not desire to
dominate these neighboring governments; we do not desire to deal
with them in any spirit of aggression.We desire those friendly
political, mental, and commercial relations which shall promote[69]their interests equally with ours.We should not longer forego
those commercial relations and advantages which our geographical
relations suggest and make so desirable. If you will excuse me
from further public speech I will be glad to take by the hand my
Henry County friends. [Cheers.]
Mr. Harrison arrived home—after the Henry County
reception in University Park—in time to welcome his
guest, Gen. R. A. Alger of Michigan, the distinguished
gentlemen meeting for the first time. In the afternoon
several hundred of the Henry County visitors, escorted
by the local clubs, marched to the Harrison residence to
pay their respects to General Alger.
In introducing his guest General Harrison said:
My Fellow-citizens—I have had the pleasure to-day to receive
in my own home a distinguished citizen of a neighboring State;
distinguished not only for his relation to the civil administration
of affairs in his State, but also as one of those conspicuous
soldiers contributed by Michigan to the armies of the Union when
our national life was in peril. I am sure you will be glad to make
broader the welcome I have given him, and to show him that he
has a warm place in the affections of our Indiana people. Let me
present to you General Alger of Michigan. [Prolonged applause.]
Gentlemen—I thank you very much for this cordial greeting. I
thank you very kindly, General Harrison, for the pleasant words
you have said of me personally. I wish to say—as you would
know if you lived in Michigan—that I am not a speechmaker. I
composed a few speeches some weeks ago, and General Harrison
has been delivering them ever since. [Laughter.] After reading
his speeches carefully, each one of them a gem of concentrated
thought, I have made up my mind that the Chicago Convention made
no mistake. [Applause.] We have not held anypost-mortemin
our State. We are glad that we have such a gallant candidate, a
man in whose composition no flaw can be found, in whose life no
act or word can be adversely criticised. We are as proud in Michigan
of your candidate—who is our candidate also—as we could
possibly be were any other man in the universe named. We are
all Harrison men in Michigan now; and the place he has in our
hearts is just as warm as though he lived within our own borders.
[Applause.] You Hoosiers have no patent upon this. [Applause.][70]The people of the United States have a great crisis before them.
The question as to the life and prosperity of our industrial institutions
is at stake. We have, as we have always had, since this
country was worth caring for, the opposition of the English
Government.
Themonth of August opened with two thousand visitors
from Morgan and Brown counties, including thirty survivors
of General Harrison's former regiment. The
several clubs comprising the Brown County delegation were
led by Norman J. Roberts, Leander Woods, Wm. Griffin,
E. D. Turner, and C. W. Mackenzie of Nashville.
Prominent in the Morgan County detachment were W.
W. Kennedy, W. C. Banta, John Hardwick, M. G. Branch,
David Wilson, H. C. Hodges, R. C. Griffitt, J. G. Bain,
John S. Newby, J. G. Kennedy, U. M. Hinson, Merwin
Rowe, Hon. J. H. Jordan, H. R. Butler, W. C. Barnett,
John C. Comer, Geo. Mitchell, and J. I. Hilton of Martinsville.
Hon. G. A. Adams spoke for the visitors.
Mr. Adams and my Morgan and Brown County Friends—In previous
campaigns I have not put you to the trouble to come and see
me. My habit has been to go to you, and it has been my pleasure often
to discuss before you the issues that were involved in our campaigns.
The limitations which are upon me now prevent me from
following this old habit, and put you, who desire to see me, to the
trouble of coming here. My associations with the county of Morgan
have been very close. Among its citizens are some of my most
devoted personal and political friends. There are also in your
county a large number of my comrades, to whom I am bound by the
very close ties that must always unite those who marched under
the same regimental banner. Your county furnished two companies
for the Seventieth Indiana—brave, true men, commanded
by intelligent and capable officers, and having in the ranks of both
companies men as capable of command as any who wore shoulder-straps
in the regiment. These men, together with their comrades
of the Thirty-third and other regiments that were recruited in[71]your county, went into the service from very high motives. They
heard the call of their country, saying: "He that loveth father or
mother or wife or child or houses or lands more than me is not
worthy of me," and they were found worthy by this supreme test.
Many of you were so careless of a money recompense for the service
you offered and gave that when you lifted your hands and swore
to protect and defend the Constitution and the flag you didn't even
know what your pay was to be. [Cries of "That's so!"] If there
was any carefulness or thought in that direction it was only that
the necessary provision might be made for those you left at home.
No sordid impulse, no low emotion, called you to the field.
[Applause.] In remembering all the painful ways in which you
walked, ways of toil, and suffering, and sickness, and dying, to
emerge into the glorious sunlight of that great day at Washington, we
must not forget that in the homes you left there were also sacrifices
and sufferings. Anxiety dwelt perpetually with those you
left behind. We remember gratefully the sacrifices and sufferings
of the fathers and mothers who sent you to the field, and, much
more, of the wives who bravely gave up to the country the most
cherished objects of their love. And now peace has come; no
hand is lifted against the flag; the Constitution is again supreme
and the Nation one. My countrymen, it is no time now to use an
apothecary's scale to weigh the rewards of the men who saved the
country. [Applause.]
If you will pardon me I will not further follow the line of remarks
suggested by the kind words you have addressed to me
through your representative. I notice the limitation which your
spokesman has put upon you, but I beg to assure him and you that
I am not so worn that I have not the strength to greet any of you
who may desire to greet me. [Great applause.]
Onthe third of August, with the mercury registering
ninety-nine degrees, thirty-five hundred visitors arrived
from Montgomery and Clinton counties, Indiana. Their
parade, carrying miniature log-cabins and other emblems,
was one of the most enthusiastic demonstrations of the
campaign. Fifty voters of 1840 headed the column led by
Major D. K. Price, aged 92. The Montgomery County[72]delegation was marshalled by John H. Burford, W. W.
Thornton, T. H. B. McCain, John S. Brown, E. P. McClarkey,
John Johnson, J. R. Bonnell, D. W. Roundtree,
T. H. Ristine, H. M. Billingsley, Dumont Kennedy, and
Clerk Hulett of Crawfordsville. Their spokesman was
Hon. Peter S. Kennedy.
Among the Clinton County leaders were Albert H. Coble,
Edward R. Burns, A. T. Dennis, Wm. H. Staley, R. P.
Shanklin, S. A. Coulton, J. W. Harrison, J. T. Hockman,
Nicholas Rice, Ambrose Colby, Oliver Hedgecock, and
Dr. Gard of Frankfort. Judge J. C. Suit was their orator.
In reply to their addresses General Harrison said:
My Fellow-citizens—These daily and increasing delegations coming
to witness their interest in the great issues which are presented
for their consideration and determination, and bearing as
they do to me their kind personal greetings, quite overmatch my
ability to fittingly greet and respond to them.
You are here from every walk in life. Some of you have achieved
success in the mechanical arts, some in professional pursuits, and
more of you come from that first great pursuit of man—the tilling
of the soil—and you come to express the thought that you have
common interests; that these diverse pursuits are bound together
harmoniously in a common governmental policy and administration.
Your interests have had a harmonious and an amazing
growth under that protective system to which your representatives
have referred, and you wisely demand a continuation of that policy
for their further advancement and development. [Applause.] You
are in large part members of the Republican party. You have in
the past contributed your personal influence, as well as your ballots,
to the great victories which it has won. Among the great achievements
of our party I think we may worthily mention the passage
of that beneficent act of legislation known as the "homestead law."
It was impossible to the old parties. It was possible only to a
party composed of the sturdy yeomanry of the free States. [Applause.]
It has populated our Territories and newer States with
the elect of our citizenship. It opened a way to an ownership of
the soil to a vast number of our citizens, and there is no surer
bond in the direction of good citizenship than that our people
should have property in the soil upon which they live. It is one
of the best elements of our strength as a State that our farm-lands[73]are so largely possessed in small tracts, and are tilled by the men
who own them. It is one of the best evidences of the prosperity
of our cities that so large a proportion of the men who work are
covered by their own roof trees. If we would perpetuate this
condition, we must maintain the American scale of wages.
[Applause.] The policy of the subdivision of the soil is one that
tends to strengthen our national life. God grant that it may be
long before we have in this country a tenantry that is hopelessly
such from one generation to another. [Applause.] That condition
of things which makes Ireland a land of tenants, and which holds
in vast estates the lands of England, must never find footing here.
[Applause.] Small farms invite the church and the school-house
into the neighborhood. Therefore, it was in the beginning the
Republican party declared for free homes of a quarter-section each.
That policy should be perpetuated as long as our public domain
lasts, and all our legislation should tend in the direction which I
have indicated. I cannot discuss all the important questions
to which you have called my attention. I have before alluded to
some of them. My Montgomery and Clinton county friends, I
thank you for the cordial and hopeful words you have addressed to
me. My highest ambition is to be found worthy of your respect
and confidence. [Applause.]
To these veterans of 1840 who kindly transfer to this the interest
they felt in that campaign, to these first voters who come to join
us with the high impulses of youth, I desire to extend my sincere
thanks. [Applause.]
Themost remarkable night demonstration of the campaign
occurred August 4, the occasion being the visit of
the Harrison and Morton Railroad Club of Terre Haute,
a thousand strong. They were met by twelve hundred
members of the Indianapolis Railroad Club, and, escorted
by several thousand citizens, marched to the Harrison residence.
At the head of the column rolled the model of a monster
locomotive, emitting fire and smoke and bearing the significant
number 544, Hundreds of stores and residences
along the line of march were illuminated.
At the head of the visiting club marched its officers:
President, D. T. Downs; Secretary, Chas. E. Carter; Treasurer,
Benj. McKeen; and Vice-Presidents, R. B. Woolsey,
J. L. Pringle, J. N. Evanhart, E. G. South, L. M. Murphy,
H. M. Kearns, George Leckert, and W. H. Miller.
President Downs delivered an address and presented an
engrossed copy of the club roster. General Harrison spoke
from a stand in front of his residence, and said:
Mr. Downs, Gentlemen of the Terre Haute Railroad Club, and
Fellow-citizens—I am amazed and gratified at the character of
this demonstration to-night. I do not find words to express the
emotions which swell in my heart as I look into your faces and
listen to the kindly greetings which you have given me through
your representative. He has not spoken in too high praise of the
railroad men of the United States. The character of the duties they
are called to discharge require great intelligence, in many departments
the best skill in the highest mechanic arts, and in all, even
in the lowest grade of labor in connection with railroad management,
there is required, for the safety of the public who entrust
themselves to your care, fidelity and watchfulness, not only in the
day, but in the darkness. The man who attends the switch, the
trackman who observes the condition of the track—all these have
put into their charge and keeping the lives of men and women
and the safety of our commerce. Therefore it is that the exigencies
of the service in which you are engaged have operated to select and
call into the service of our great railroad corporations a picked
body of men. I gratefully acknowledge to-night the service you
render to the country of which I am a citizen. The great importance
of the enterprises with which you are connected have already
suggested to our legislators that they owe duties to you as well
as to the travelling and mercantile public. The Congress of the
United States has, under that provision of the Constitution which
commits to its care all foreign and interstate commerce, undertaken
to regulate the great interstate railroads in the interest of equal and
fair competition and in the equal interest of all members of our
communities. I do not doubt that certain and necessary provisions
for the safety of the men who operate these roads will yet be made
compulsory by public and general law. [Applause.] The dangers
connected with your calling are very great, and the public interest,
as well as your own, requires that they should be reduced to the
minimum. I do not doubt that we shall yet require that uniformity[75]in the construction of railroad cars that will diminish the danger
of those who must pass between them in order to make up trains.
[Applause.] I do not doubt, either, that as these corporations are
not private corporations, but are recognized by the law to which I
have referred and by the uniform decisions of our courts as having
public relations, we shall yet see legislation in the direction of
providing some suitable tribunal of arbitration for the settlement of
differences between railroad men and the companies that engage
their services. [Great applause.] I believe that in these directions,
and others that I have not time to suggest, reforms will work themselves
out, with exact justice to the companies and with justice to
the men they employ. Because, my friends, I do not doubt—and I
hope you will never allow yourselves to doubt—that the great mass
of our people, of all vocations and callings, love justice and right
and hate oppression. [Applause.] The laboring men of this land
may safely trust every just reform in which they are interested to
public discussion and to the logic of reason; they may surely hope,
upon these lines, which are open to you by the ballot-box, to accomplish
under our American institutions all those right things
you have conceived as necessary to your highest success and well-being.
Do not allow yourselves to doubt, for one moment, the
friendly sentiment of the great masses of our people. Make your
appeal wisely, and calmly, and boldly, for every reform you
desire, to that sentiment of justice which pervades our American
public. [Applause.]
You come to-night from one of our most beautiful Indiana cities.
It was built on the Wabash in the expectation that that stream
would furnish the channel of its communication with the outside
world. But the Wabash is a small tributary to-day to the commerce
of Terre Haute. The railroads that span it are the great
vehicles of your commerce. They have largely superseded the
water communication that was deemed so important in the first
settlement, and, perhaps, was so decisive in the location of your
city. Terre Haute is conspicuous for its industries. The smoke of
your factories goes up night and day. The farms about your city
have become gardens, and the cordial and harmonious relations
between the railroad shop and the factory and the farms that lie
about have a conspicuous illustration with you. You have found
that that policy which built up these shops, which maintains them,
which secures the largest output yearly from the factories, which
gives employment to the largest number of men, is the best thing
not only for the railroads that do the transportation, but for the
workingmen, who find steady employment at good wages, and for[76]the farmers, who supply their needs. [Applause.] You will not
willingly be led to believe that any policy that would check the
progress and the prosperity of these enterprises is good for you or for
the community in which you live. [Applause and cries of "No,
never!"] It will be hard to convince such an intelligent body of
workingmen that a policy which would transfer from this country
to any other the work that might be done here is good for them.
[Applause.] It can easily be demonstrated that if our revenue laws
were so adjusted that the imports from Great Britain should be
doubled it would be good for the workingmen of England, but I
think it would be hard to demonstrate that it would be good for
the workingmen of America. [Applause.] There is a wise selfishness;
it begins at home, and he who has the care of his own family
first, of the community in which he lives, of the nation of which
he is a citizen, is wise in his generation.
Now, my friends, I have been daily talking. I used to be
thought by my friends to be a reticent man. [Laughter.] I fear
I am making an impression that I am garrulous. [Cries of "No!
No!"] And yet, when friends such as you take the trouble you
have to-night to visit me, I feel that I owe it to you to say something.
Now, thanking you for this roster, which will furnish authentic
evidence, if it is challenged, that this visit to-night has been from
genuine railroad men [applause], I venture to invite my Terre Haute
friends to enter my house. I will ask the citizens of Indianapolis,
the escort club of my own home, railroad friends who have done
so much to make your coming here to-night pleasant, to kindly
refrain themselves, and allow me to greet the visitors. In order
that that may be accomplished, I will ask some of my Terre Haute
friends to place themselves by the door, that I may meet those who
are of their company. The others I have seen, or will see some
other day.
Monday, August 6, General Harrison received a visit
from one hundred members of the Kansas City Blaine
Club, accompanied by many ladies,en routeto New York
to welcome the Maine statesman on his return from Europe.
Col. R. H. Hunt led the club, and delivered a stirring
address on behalf of the Republicans of Missouri. On con[77]cluding
he introduced Miss Abbie Burgess, who presented
the General a beautiful badge inscribed "The Kansas City
Blaine Club Greet Their Next President." Miss Burgess
made the presentation in the name of the working-women
of America.
General Harrison responded briefly to these addresses,
stating that he found he had been talking a great deal of
late; "but," he added, "I never begin it; some one else
always starts it." He returned his cordial thanks to the
visitors for the compliment of their call.
Speaking of the trip which the visitors were making, he
commended its purpose in meeting upon his return to
America "that matchless defender of Republican principles—James
G. Blaine." He felt sure that no circumstance
would be omitted in doing him merited honor. He was
glad to know that the Republicans of Missouri are so zealous
and aggressive. He believed that they had, perhaps, too
much acquiesced in the majorities against them, and had
not offered such resistance as would prove their own
strength. In the coming canvass he thought the economic
questions at issue ought to work to the interest of Republicans
in Missouri and overcome in part the prevailing
Democratic prejudices there. He also expressed the hope
that the race question would cease to divide men by prejudices
that should long ago have become extinct.
In reply to Miss Burgess' address the General expressed
his grateful appreciation of the souvenir, and said
that the women of the land could never be forgotten. To
those of them who are toilers for their daily bread the
first thought goes out in considering the question that
involves depreciation of wages, and concluded by declaring
if cheaper coats and cheaper garments were to be had
by still further reducing the wages of the sewing-women
of America, then he was not in favor of cheaper apparel.
Indianapoliscontained several thousand visitors at this
period, in attendance on the State convention; in addition
to these, however, on the seventh of August two large
delegations arrived. The first came from Tippecanoe
County. The city of Lafayette was represented by the Lincoln
Club, H. C. Tinney, President; the Garfield Club,
Henry Vinton, President; and the Young Men's Republican
Club Association. Among other prominent members of
the delegation were James M. Reynolds, N. I. Throckmorton,
W. H. Caulkins, Charles E. Wilson, Wm. Fraser,
John B. Sherwood, Charles Terry, John Opp, Alexander
Stidham, Matt Heffner, S. Vater, Maurice Mayerstein,
Geo. A. Harrison, W. D. Hilt, P. W. Sheehan, C. H. Henderson,
Henry Marshall, J. W. Jefferson, Wm. E. Beach,
John B. Gault, and H. M. Carter. Hon. B. Wilson Smith
delivered an address on behalf of his townsmen.
General Harrison, in his response, touched upon the
origin and principles of the Republican party. He said:
Mr. Smith and my Tippecanoe County Friends—I am very grateful
for the evidence which you give me this morning by your presence,
and by the kind words which your representative has addressed
to me, of your respect and good-will. You are members, in great
part, of a party that was not machine-made. It had its birth in an
impulse that stirred simultaneously the hearts of those who loved
liberty. The first convention of our party did not organize it.
Those men were great, but they were delegates—representatives of
principles which had already asserted their power over the consciences
and the hearts of the people. [Applause.] The Republican
party did not organize for spoils; it assembled about an altar of
sacrifice and in a sanctuary beset with enemies. You have not
forgotten our early battle-cry—"Free speech, a free press, free
schools and free Territories." We have widened the last word; it
is now "a free Nation." The appeals which we have made and
shall yet make are addressed to the hearts, the consciences, and to
the mind of our people. Therefore, we believe in schools and
colleges, and seminaries of learning. Education is the great con[79]servative
and assimilating force. A doubter is not necessarily an
evil person. The capacity to doubt implies reason—the power of
solving doubts; and if the doubt is accompanied with a purpose to
find the truth and a supreme affection for the truth when it is
found, he will not go widely astray. Therefore, in our political
campaigns let men think for themselves, and the truth will assert
its sway over the minds of our people. Then everything that
affects the record and character of the candidate and the principles
of the parties will be brought to a safe tribunal whose judgment
will be right. [Great applause and cries of "Good!"]
I am not unaware of the fact that some of you had another convention
preference, but I have always believed that convention preferences
should be free in the Republican party [applause], and that
no prejudice should follow any Republican on account of that preference.
As party men, we will judge a man by his post-convention
conduct.
The second delegation comprised fifteen hundred citizens
from Vanderburg County. The Tippecanoe Club of Evansville,
with sixty veterans, led the column.
Leaders in the delegation were ex-Congressman Heilman,
Henry S. Bennett, Chas. H. McCarer, J. E. Iglehart,
W. A. Wheeler, C. R. Howe, J. W. Compton, S. B. Sansom,
S. A. Bate, John H. Osborn, John W. Davidson,
Henry Ludwig, Wm. Koelling, A. S. Glover, J. W. Roelker,
R. C. Wilkinson, James D. Parvin, Wm. Warren,
Chas. L. Roberts, and Geo. N. Wells.
Dr. W. G. Ralston delivered an address in the name of
the delegation.
My Good Friends from the Pocket—I feel very much complimented
by your visit to-day. Your coming here from so great a distance
involved much inconvenience which those who live nearer have not
experienced. You are geographically remote, but it does not follow
from that that you are remote from the sources of political influence
and political power.
The General then spoke of the extension of the Republican party
from the lakes to the Ohio in Indiana and all over the North, saying
that geographical lines marked its limits only in the South.
He said that the people of Vanderburg County, living as they did
on the Ohio River, a river that some men sought to make the divis[80]ion
line between two governments, knew what it was to guard
their homes and what it was to send out veterans from the sturdy
yeomanry to the defence of their country. He referred in the highest
terms to General Shackelford and his service in the hour of his
country's need. "I greet you to-day," he continued, "as Republicans—men
whose judgment and conscience compel their political
opinions. It does not fall to my lot now to argue or discuss at
length any of the great political questions of the day. I have done
that in the past. It is reserved for others in this campaign. I
recall with pleasure my frequent visits to you and your cordial
reception when I came to speak to you. In this contest others will
maintain before you that great policy which, we believe, dignifies
every American, both at home and abroad."
Speaking in reference to wages, General Harrison said that he
thought we often forget the women who were compelled to work
for their daily bread. He sometimes thought those persons who
demand cheaper coats would be ashamed of themselves if they
could realize that their demand cut the wages of the women who
made these coats. In concluding, he greeted and thanked the
Tippecanoe Club for coming, and the Young Men's Republican
Club also, saying that he had heard of their efficient work in the
highest terms of praise.
TheRepublican State Convention convened at Tomlinson
Hall, city of Indianapolis, August 8, 1888, and concluded its
work in one day.
It was the largest attended and most enthusiastic convention
ever held in Indiana. Hon. Wm. H. Calkins of
Indianapolis was chosen Chairman, and Mark L. De
Motte of Valparaiso Secretary. The following ticket was
nominated, and in November triumphantly elected:
Lieutenant-Governor—Ira J. Chase, Hendricks County.
Secretary of State—Charles F. Griffin, Lake County.
Auditor of State—Bruce Carr, Orange County.
Treasurer—J. A. Lemcke, Vanderburg County.
Attorney-General—L. T. Michner, Shelby County.
Superintendent Public Instruction—H. M. LaFollette,
Boone County.
Reporter Supreme Court—John L. Griffiths, Marion
County.
First District—Silas T. Coffey, Clay County.
Second District—J. G. Berkshire, Jennings County.
Fourth District—Walter Olds, Whitely County.
Electors-at-Large—James M. Shackelford, Vanderburg
County; Thomas H. Nelson, Vigo County.
Judge Gardner, a delegate from Daviess County, introduced
a resolution, which was unanimously adopted midst
great enthusiasm, inviting General Harrison to visit the
convention, and designating Hon. Richard W. Thompson,
John W. Linck and E. P. Hammond a committee to convey
the invitation.
On the platform, with the presiding officer, to meet the
distinguished guest were the Hon. James N. Huston, Hon.
John M. Butler, Hon. Will Cumback, William Wallace,
Hon. W. P. Fishback, Hon. A. C. Harris, Rev. Dr. Backus,
Judge E. B. Martindale, General Thomas Bennett, Judge
J. H. Jordan, and the Republican State officials.
The entrance of General Harrison, escorted by the committee,
was followed by a tumultuous scene rarely witnessed
outside of a national convention, the demonstration
lasting nearly ten minutes. Chairman Calkins finally succeeded
in introducing—"the next President"—and General
Harrison spoke as follows:
Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Convention—When I received
your invitation to appear for a moment before you I felt that what
you asked could not involve any indelicacy, and as it offered me
the only opportunity which I shall have to look into the faces of my
Indiana Republican friends here assembled, I could not find it in
my heart to deny myself the pleasure of spending a moment in
your presence. [Applause.] This enthusiastic and kindly recep[82]tion
crowns a long series of friendly acts on the part of my Republican
friends of Indiana. To have your confidence is very grateful
to me, to be worthy of your confidence is the highest ambition I
can set before me. [Applause.] Whatever may befall me, I feel
that my fellow-citizens of Indiana have crowned me and made me
forever their debtor. [Applause.] But I must not detain you from
the business which has brought you here. [Cries of "Go on!"]
Such an assemblage as this is characteristic of America. What
you shall do to-day will influence the prosperity and welfare of the
State. Such a meeting is a notable historical event. We have
to-day transpiring in this country two other events that are attracting
wide interest. At the chief seaport of our country that great
Republican, and that great American, James G. Blaine, returns to
his home. [Applause.] We shall not be disappointed, I hope, in
hearing his powerful voice in Indiana before the campaign is old.
[Applause.] Another scene attracts our solemn and even tearful
interest, for while you are transacting your business here to-day
a draped train is bearing from the place of his sojourn by the sea
to the place of his interment at Washington the mortal part of
Philip H. Sheridan. From the convention at Chicago we sent him
our greetings and our earnest prayers for his restoration. To-day
we mourn our hero dead. You called him then a favorite child of
victory, and such he was. He was one of those great commanders
who, upon the field of battle, towered a very god of war. [Applause.]
He was one of those earnest fighters for his country who did not
at the end of his first day's fight contemplate rest and recuperation
for his own command. He rested and refreshed his command with
the wine of victory, and found recuperation in the dispersion of
the enemy that confronted him. [Great applause.] This gallant
son of Ireland and America [great applause] has written a chapter
in the art of war that will not fail to instruct and to develop, when
the exigencies may come again, others who shall repeat in defence
of our flag his glorious achievements. [Great applause.]
And now, Mr. President, and gentlemen, I am sure the heat of
this hall and the labors that are before you suggest to you, as they
do to me, that I shall close these remarks and bid you good-by.
[Great applause.]
Godfrey Commandery, Knights Templars, of Chicago,
colored men,en routeto the Grand Conclave at Louisville,
paid their respects to General Harrison on the 13th,
and were individually presented by Eminent Commander
H. S. Cooper. On August 14 the visitors aggregated
6,000.
The first delegation came from Hamilton County, Indiana,
headed by eighty veterans of the Tippecanoe Club,
Charles Swain, President. There were nine Lincoln
League organizations in line. Among the leaders were J.
K. Bush, J. E. Walker, F. B. Pfaff, J. R. Christian, Benj.
Goldsmith, Ike Hiatt, and C. R. Davis, of Noblesville, and
Captain Carl, of Arcadia. Hon. J. R. Gray was their
spokesman.
Colonel Gray and my Hamilton County Friends—The demonstration
which you have made this morning is worthy of Hamilton
County; it is worthy of the great party to which you have given
the consent of your minds and the love of your hearts; it is altogether
more than worthy of him whom you have come to greet.
You come from a county that, as your spokesman has said, is
greatly favored, a county rich in its agricultural capacity; but, as
I look into your faces this morning I turn from the contemplation
of material wealth to the thought of those things that are higher
and better. [Applause and cries of "Good! Good!"] Not long ago
a distinguished Englishman and jurist visited our country. On
the eve of his return, in a public address, he alluded to the fact
that wherever he went he was asked whether he was not amazed at
the great size of our country. This student of law and government
very kindly, but very decidedly, rebuked this too prevalent pride
of bulk, and called our attention to the finer and higher things
that he had observed in our American civilization.
So to-day, as I look into these intelligent faces, my thoughts are
turned away from those things that are scheduled, that have their
places in our census returns, to those things which belong to the
higher man—his spiritual and moral nature. [Applause.] I con[84]gratulate
you, not so much upon the rich farm lands of your county
as upon your virtuous and happy homes. [Applause.] The home
is the best, as it is the first, school of good citizenship. It is the
great conservative and assimilating force. I should despair for my
country if American citizens were to be trained only in our schools,
valuable as their instruction is. It is in the home that we first
learn obedience and respect for law. Parental authority is the
type of beneficent government. It is in the home that we learn
to love, in the mother that bore us, that which is virtuous, consecrated,
and pure. [Applause.] I take more pride in the fact that
the Republican party has always been the friend and protector of
the American home than in aught else. [Applause.] By the beneficent
homestead law it created more than half a million of homes;
by the Emancipation Proclamation it converted a million cattle-pens
into homes. [Applause] And it is still true to those principles
that will preserve contentment and prosperity in our homes.
I greet you as men who have been nurtured in such homes, and
call your thought to the fact that the Republican party has always
been, and can be trusted to be, friendly to all that will promote
virtue, intelligence and morality in the homes of our people.
Now, in view of the fact that I must greet other delegations to-day
[cries of "Don't stop!"], I am sure you will be content with
these brief remarks, though they are altogether an inadequate return
for your cordial demonstration.
The other delegations of the day came from Macon and
Douglas counties, Illinois, numbering 3,000. A notable
feature of the Douglas County display was the tattered old
battle-flag of the Twenty-first Illinois Regiment—General
Grant's original regiment—borne by seven survivors.
Capt. T. D. Minturn, of Tuscola, was spokesman. At
the head of the Macon County column marched 300 uniformed
members of the Young Men's Republican Club of
Decatur, led by Captain Wm. M. Strange and Wm. Frazier;
Prof. L. A. Estes, of Westfield, headed a company
from that town. Andrew H. Mills, of Decatur, spoke for
the Macon County people.
My Republican Friends—I feel myself unable to respond suitably
to this magnificent demonstration and to those kindly words which
you have addressed to me. Public duties involve grave responsi[85]bilities.
The conscientious man will not contemplate them without
seriousness. But the man who sincerely desires to know and
to do his duty may rely upon the favoring help of God and the
friendly judgment of his fellow-citizens. [Great applause.]
Your coming from another State and from distant homes testifies
to the observing interest which you feel in those questions which
are to be settled by the ballot in November. [Cries of "We will
settle them!"]
The confessed free-traders are very few in this country. But
English statesmen and English newspapers confidently declare that
in fact we have a great many. [Applause.]
We are told that it is only an average reduction of seven per cent.
that is contemplated. [Laughter.] Well, if that were true, and
not a very deceptive statement, as it really is, you might fairly ask
whether this average reduction does not sacrifice some American
industry or the wages of our workingmen and working-women.
You may also fairly ask to see the free list, which does not figure
in this "average." [Applause, and cries of "That's it!"] We would
have more confidence in the protest of these reformers that they are
not "free-traders" if we could occasionally hear one of them say that
he was a protectionist [applause], or admit that our customs duties
should adequately favor our domestic industries. But they seem to
be content with a negative statement.
Those who would, if they could, eliminate the protective principle
from our tariff laws have, in former moments of candor,
described themselves as "progressive free-traders," and it is an apt
designation. The protective system is a barrier against the flood
of foreign importations and the competition of underpaid labor in
Europe. [Applause.] Those who want to lower the dike owe it
to those who live behind it to make a plain statement of their purposes.
Do they want to invite the flood, or do they believe in the
dike, but think it will afford adequate protection at a lower level?
[Great and enthusiastic applause.]
What I say is only suggestive. I cannot in this brief talk go
into details, or even properly limit the illustrations I have used.
But this is an appropriate and timely inquiry: With what motive,
what ultimate design, what disposition toward the principle
of protection is it that our present tariff schedule is attacked? It
may be that reductions should be made; it may be that some duties
should be increased; but we want to know whether those who propose
the revision believe in taking thought of our American workingmen
in fixing the rates, or will leave them to the chance effects
of a purely revenue tariff. [Applause.]
Now, having spoken once already to-day, you will accept this
inadequate acknowledgment of this magnificent demonstration.
I thank you, my Illinois friends, not only on my own behalf, but
on behalf of the Republicans of Indiana, for the great interest you
have manifested. [Applause.]
Rush, Decatur, and Delaware counties, Indiana, contributed
fully five thousand visitors on the 15th of August.
Rush County sent twenty Republican clubs, mainly township
organizations, led by one hundred veterans of 1836
and '40. The prominent Republicans of the delegation
were Hon. John K. Gowdy, John M. Stevens, A. L. Riggs,
W. J. Henley, John F. Moses, T. M. Green, J. C. Kiplinger,
J. W. Study, and G. W. Looney, of Rushville; R. R.
Spencer and J. A. Shannon, of Richland. Judge W. A.
Cullen was their spokesman.
Judge Cullen and my Rush County Friends—I am glad to see you
here—glad to be assured by him who has spoken in your behalf
that your coming here in some measure is intended as an evidence
of your personal respect for me. The respect of one's fellow-citizens,
who have opportunities to know him, is of priceless value.
I cannot in these daily addresses enter much into public questions.
You are Indianians, some of you by birth; some of you, like
me, by choice. You are Republicans; you have opposed always
the doctrine of State's rights; you have believed and gloried in
the great citizenship that embraces all the people of all the States.
You believe that this Government is not a confederation to be dissolved
at the will of any member of it, but a Nation having the
inherent right, by arms, if need be, to perpetuate its beneficent
existence. [Great applause.] Many of you who are here to-day
have aided in vindicating that principle upon the battle-field [cries
of "Plenty of us!"], and yet these views are not inconsistent with
a just State pride. We are proud to be Indianians, proud of the
story of her progress in material development, proud of her educational
and benevolent institutions, proud of her Christian homes,[87]proud of her part in the Civil War. If there has been any just
cause of reproach against our State we will all desire that it may
be removed. We may fairly appeal to all Indianians, without distinction
of party, to co-operate in promoting such public measures
as are calculated to lift up the dignity and honor and estimation
of Indiana among the States of the Union. [Great applause.]
I will call your attention to one such subject that seems to me
to be worthy of your thought. It is the reform of our election
laws. [Applause and cries of "That's it!"] A constitutional amendment,
to which a great majority of our people gave their sanction,
has removed the impediments which stood in the way of progressive
legislation in the protection of an honest ballot in Indiana.
Formerly we could not require a definite period of residence in the
voting precinct. Now we may and have. The same amendment
authorized our Legislature to enact a just and strict registry law,
which will enable the inspectors properly to verify the claims of
those who offer a ballot. Every safeguard of law should be thrown
around the ballot-box until fraud in voting and frauds in counting
shall receive the sure penalties of law as well as the reprobation of
all good men. [Great applause.] The Republican party has always
stood for election reforms. No measure tending to secure the
ballot-box against fraud has ever been opposed by its representatives.
I am not here to make imputations; I submit this general
suggestion: Find me the party that sets the gate of election frauds
open, or holds it open, and I will show you the party that expects to
drive cattle that way. [Applause.] Let us as citizens, irrespective
of party, unite to exalt the name of Indiana by making her election
laws models of justice and severity, and her elections free from the
taint of suspicion. [Great applause.] And now, as I must presently
speak to other delegations, I am sure my Rush County friends
will allow me to close these remarks. [Applause and cheers.]
The visitors from Decatur and Delaware counties were
received together. The Decatur delegation numbered
fifteen hundred, led by B. F. Bennett, John F. Goddard,
V. P. Harris, J. J. Hazelrigg, Geo. Anderson, Edward
Speer, A. G. Fisher, F. M. Sherwood, and A. S. Creath,
of Greensburg. Their spokesman was the Hon. Will
Cumback. Delaware County sent twelve organizations,
conspicuous among which were the Tippecanoe Club, the
Veterans Regiment, and Lincoln Colored Club. Among
the leaders of the delegation were ex-Senator M. C. Smith,[88]A. F. Collins, Hon. James N. Templer, Major J. F. Wildman,
Rev. T. S. Guthrie, J. D. Hoyt, Geo. F. McCulloch,
W. W. Orr, Joseph G. Lefler, Lee Coffeen, C. F. W.
Neely, Ed. R. Templer, W. H. Murray, W. H. Stokes,
John S. Aldredge, J. R. Shoemaker, Jacob Stiffler, Web
S. Richey, T. H. Johnson and others, of Muncie. Rev.
N. L. Bray spoke on behalf of the Lincoln Club, but R. S.
Gregory delivered the address for the delegation as a
whole.
In reply to these several addresses General Harrison
said:
My Friends—The man who does not believe that the issues of this
campaign have taken a very deep hold upon the minds and upon
the hearts of the American people would do well to come and
stand with me and look into the faces of the masses who gather here.
I know nothing of the human face if I do not read again in your
faces and eyes the lesson I have read here from day to day, and
it is this: That the thinking, intelligent, God-fearing and self-respecting
citizens of this country believe there are issues at stake
that demand their earnest effort. [Applause.] A campaign that
is one simply of party management, a campaign by committees and
public speakers, may fail; but a campaign to which the men and
women of the country give their unselfish and earnest efforts can
never fail. [Great applause.]
It is no personal interest in the candidate that stirs these emotions
in your hearts; it is the belief that questions are involved affecting
your prosperity and the prosperity of your neighbors; affecting the
dignity of the nation; affecting the generation to which you will
presently leave the government which our fathers built and you
have saved. [Applause.]
One subject is never omitted by those who speak for these visiting
delegations, viz.: the protective tariff. The purpose not to permit
American wages to be brought below the level of comfortable living,
and competence, and hope, by competition with the pauper
labor of Europe, has taken a very strong hold upon our people.
[Applause.] And of kin to this suggestion and purpose is this
other: that we will not permit this country to be made the dumping-ground
of foreign pauperism and crime. [Great applause.]
There are some who profess to be eager to exclude paupers and
Chinese laborers, and at the same time advocate a policy that
brings the American workman into competition with the product[89]of cheap foreign labor. [Applause and cries of "That's it!"] The
disastrous effects upon our workingmen and working-women of
competition with cheap, underpaid labor are not obviated by
keeping the cheap worker over the sea if the product of his cheap
labor is allowed free competition in our market. We should protect
our people against competition with the products of underpaid
labor abroad as well as against the coming to our shores of paupers,
laborers under contract, and the Chinese labor. [Enthusiastic applause.]
These two thoughts are twin thoughts; the same logic
supports both; and the Republican party holds them as the dual
conclusion of one great argument.
Now, gentlemen, to the first voters, who come with the high
impulse of recruits into this strife; to these old men, seasoned
veterans of many a contest, and to these colored friends, whose
fidelity has been conspicuous, I give my thanks and hearty greetings.
[Applause.] There has been a desire expressed that the
reception of these delegations should be individualized; that Delaware
should be received by itself, and Decatur separately; but that
is not possible. You are one in thought and purpose; and if I am
not able to individualize your reception by counties, I will, so far
as I can, now make it absolutely individual by greeting each one of
you.
Delegationsfrom Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, aggregating
between nine and ten thousand visitors, paid their
respects to the Republican nominee on the seventeenth of
August.
The Ohio delegation came from Bellefontaine, Logan
County, led by Judge William Lawrence. They carried
a beautiful old silk banner that had been presented to a
Logan County club at the hands of Gen. Wm. Henry
Harrison in 1840.
Ford County, Illinois, sent a large delegation, headed by
Judge A. Sample and Col. C. Bogardus, of Paxton. The
Young Men's Club—Wm. Ramsey, President, and the
Paxton League—T. T. Thompson, President, were conspicuous
in this delegation.
The Kankakee County (Illinois) delegation, headed by
the Republican club of the City of Kankakee in campaign
uniforms, was led by Judge T. S. Sawyer, D. H. Paddock,
F. S. Hatch, W. F. Kenoga, H. L. Richardson, J. F.
Leonard, R. D. Sherman, Geo. R. Letourneau, and Judge
J. N. Orr.
Morgan County, Illinois, contributed the largest delegation
of the day, over two thousand, with three drum corps,
one, the Jacksonville Juvenile Drum Corps, led by Thomas
Barbour, aged 81. Prominent in the Morgan delegation
were C. G. Rutledge, President Young Men's Republican
Club, B. F. Hilligass, D. M. Simmons, Dr. P. G. Gillett,
Sam'l W. Nichols, Judge M. T. Layman, J. G. Loomis,
A. P. and J. M. Smith, veterans of '40, and Henry Yates,
son of Illinois' war Governor—all of Jacksonville.
The Indiana visitors came from three counties—Bartholomew,
Johnson, and Vermilion.
The Bartholomew contingent was composed largely of
veterans of the late war, who were led by a company of
their daughters in uniform. Among their representative
members were John C. Orr, W. W. Lambert, John H.
Taylor, John F. Ott, J. W. Morgan, John Sharp, T. B.
Prother, Andrew Perkinson, and H. Rost, of Columbus.
The Johnson County delegation numbered two thousand,
led by W. T. Pritchard, D. W. Barnett, Jessie Overstreet,
J. H. Vannuys, I. M. Thompson, Jacob Hazlett, and John
Brown, of Franklin.
Vermilion County sent fifteen hundred enthusiastic visitors,
commanded by A. J. Ralph, Marshal of the delegation.
Other leaders were Hon. R. B. Sears, W. L. Porter,
Rob't A. Parrett, S. B. Davis, R. H. Nixon, Geo. H.
Fisher, and Andrew Curtis, of Newport.
The speakers on behalf of these several delegations were:
Hon. William Lawrence, of Ohio; Hon. Frank L. Cook,
Paxton, Ill.; Judge C. R. Starr, Kankakee County, Ill.;
Prof. Wm. D. Saunders, Jacksonville, Ill.; Major W. T.[91]Strickland, Bartholomew County, Ind.; Col. Sam'l P.
Oyler, Johnson County, Ind.; Hon. H. H. Connelly, Vermilion
County, Ind. To these addresses General Harrison
responded as follows:
My Friends—The magnitude of this gathering, I fear, quite out-reaches
the capacity of my voice. It is so great and so cordial, it
has been accompanied by so many kind expressions, that my heart
is deeply touched—too deeply to permit of extended or connected
speech. I return most cordially the greetings of these friends from
Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois [cheers], a trio of great States lying in
this great valley, endowed by nature with a productive capacity
that rivals the famous valley of the Nile, populated by a people
unsurpassed in intelligence, manly independence and courage.
[Applause and cheers.] The association of these States to-day
brings to my mind the fact that in the brigade with which I served
Indiana, Ohio and Illinois were represented [applause]—three
regiments from Illinois, the One Hundred and Second, the One Hundred
and Fifth and the One Hundred and Twenty-ninth; one from
Ohio, the Seventy-ninth, and one from Indiana, the Seventieth
Infantry. I have seen the men of these States stand together in
the evening parade. I have seen them also charge together in
battle, and die together for the flag they loved [great applause],
and when the battle was over I have seen the dead gathered from
the field they had enriched with their blood and laid side by side
in a common grave. Again you evidence by your coming that these
great States have in peace common interests and common sympathies.
The Republican party has always been hospitable to the
truth. [Applause and laughter.] It has never shunned debate. It
has boldly, and in the courage of the principles it has advocated,
opened the lists and challenged all comers. It has never found it
necessary or consistent with its great principles to suppress free
discussion of any question. There is not a Republican community
where any man may not advocate without fear his political beliefs.
[Cries of "That's so!"] There is not a Republican voting precinct
where any man, whatever may have been his relations to the flag
during the war, may not freely exercise his right to vote. [Cheers.]
There is not one such precinct where the right of a Confederate
soldier freely to cast the ballot of his choice would not be defended
by the Union veterans of the war. [Applause and cries of "That's
true!"] Our party is tolerant of political differences. It has always
yielded to others all that it demanded for itself. It has been intolerant
of but one thing: disloyalty to the flag and to the Union[92]of States. [Great applause.] It has had the good fortune to set
in the Constitution and in the permanent laws of our country
many of the great principles for which it has contended. It has
not only persuaded a majority of our thinking people, but it has
had the unusual fortune to compel those who opposed it to give a
belated assent to every great principle it has supported.
Now, gentlemen, I am sure you will excuse further speech.
What I say here must necessarily be very general. It would not
be in good taste for me to make too close or too personal an application
of Republican principles. [Laughter and applause and
cries of "You're a dandy!"]
I do not know what to say further. I have up to this time
greeted personally all those who came. My courage is a little
shaken as I look upon this vast multitude, but for a time, at
least—so long as I can, and to those who especially desire it, I will
give a personal greeting. [Great and prolonged applause.]
Thecommercial travelling men, and their friends, from
the cities of Peoria, Bloomington, Terre Haute, and Lafayette,
about a thousand in number, paid their respects
to General Harrison on the afternoon of the 18th of
August. The Bloomington delegation was led by J. H.
Sprague and Dan Van Elsler, the Peoria Club by J. G.
Jones. Each delegation was escorted by a splendid band.
They were met and escorted to the Harrison residence
by a committee from the Indianapolis Commercial Travellers'
Association, comprising G. C. Webster, C. H. McPherson,
John V. Parker, W. H. Schmidt, D. W. Coffin,
Harry Gates, R. K. Syfers, W. F. Winchester, Wm.
Sisson, T. P. Swain, C. L. Schmidt, Ed. Finney, O. W.
Moorman, Charles Lefler, M. P. Green, J. L. Barnhardt,
Berg. Applegate, G. R. Rhoads, Hon. J. H. Rowell, of
Bloomington; and Hon. J. S. Starr of Peoria spoke on
behalf of the visitors. General Harrison said:
Gentlemen of the Commercial Travellers' Association of Peoria,
Bloomington, Lafayette, and Terre Haute—I thank you for this most[93]cordial and beautiful demonstration. The respect of such a body
of men is a valuable acquisition. But I am particularly glad that
a class so large and so influential, and one that touches so many
communities, is loyally and earnestly devoted to the principles of
the Republican party. I have travelled somewhat in the wake of
the commercial men, and have observed that they have the habit of
getting the best of everything wherever they go. [Applause and
laughter. A voice: "That's the reason we are here!"] I am therefore
quite ready to credit the statement of the gentleman who has
just spoken in your behalf when he tells me that the commercial
travellers are all Republicans. [Applause and cries of "He was
right!"] I should expect they would get the best politics that were
to be found. [Laughter and applause.]
Your calling is an active one—you are always on the move.
You are quick to discover the wants of local trade. You are persuasive
in speech and address; you are honest for the love of
integrity, and do not forget that you must again face your customer
after the goods are delivered. [Laughter and applause.]
The men who employed you have chosen you, picked you out,
and they subject you to the weekly test of success. You have been
proved and not found wanting. The wide intercourse you have
with your fellow-men and the wide view you get of our country
must tend to make you liberal and patriotic.
The provincialism that once existed in this country has largely
disappeared, and the commercial travellers have been an important
agency in bringing this about. This going to and fro has given
you a fuller comprehension, not only of the extent of this country,
but of the greatness and unity of its people. [Cheers.] I have
thought that the prophet Daniel must have had a vision of the
commercial travellers when he said that in the last days many
should run to and fro and knowledge should be increased. [Laughter
and applause.]
You will not expect me to enter upon the discussion of any of
the topics which have been suggested by those who have spoken
for you. Most of them I have already alluded to in public speech
since my nomination, and upon some of them I have spoken more
fully before. Let me suggest but this one thought: Do not allow
any one to persuade you that this great contest as to our tariff
policy is one between schedules. It is not a question of a seven per
cent. reduction. [Applause.] It is a question between wide-apart
principles. [Cries of "That's right!"]
The principle of protection, the intelligent recognition in the
framing of our tariff laws of the duty to protect our American[94]industries and maintain the American scale of wages by adequate
discriminating duties [cries of "That's right!" "That's it!"] on
the one hand, and on the other a denial of the constitutional right
to make our customs duties protective, or the assertion of the doctrine
that free competition with foreign products is the ideal condition
to which all our legislation should tend. [Applause.]
Let me now, in behalf not only of myself, but of my family, thank
you for your visit and ask you to enter our home. [Applause.]
General Harrisonleft Indianapolis on the morning of
August 21, '88, for a two weeks' outing and vacation at
Middle Bass Island, Lake Erie, where he was the guest—upon
invitation of ex-Gov. Charles Foster, of Ohio—of
the Middle Bass Fishing Club, Mather Shoemaker, Sr.,
President.
He was accompanied by Mrs. Harrison, Judge Wm.
A. Woods and wife, Miss Woods, Samuel Miller, and
representatives of the Associated Press and CincinnatiCommercial-Gazette.
His departure was not generally known, consequently
there was no demonstration along the line until Defiance,
Ohio, was reached, where several hundred people had
gathered. Hon. C. A. Flickinger delivered a brief address
of welcome.
General Harrison, speaking from the train, said:
Gentlemen—I am very much obliged to you for this reception.
You will excuse me, I am sure, for not attempting to make any
speech. This evidence of your friendly feeling is gratifying to
me. We were intending to travel to-day in quietness, and I am
confident you will conform to our wishes in that respect by allowing
me to say simply, "How do you do" and "Good-by."
Toledo was reached early in the evening, and several
thousand citizens and militia welcomed the distinguished
travellers. A committee of reception, comprising James
M. Brown, Chairman, Mayor Hamilton, Hon. E. D.
Potter, J. C. Bonner, John Berdan, C. A. King, Calvin[95]Barker, Fred Eaton, Col. S. C. Reynolds, Judge R. F. Doyle,
Judge Joseph Cummings, Hon. John F. Kumler, Hon.
Richard Waite, Wm. Baker, and Judge Austin, escorted
General Harrison and his party to the residence of Wm.
Cummings, whose guests they were. At night an open-air
mass-meeting was held in Memorial Hall Square, where
ten thousand men assembled. Gov. Foster spoke at
length, and was followed by General Harrison, who was
introduced by Hon. J. M. Brown, President of the Executive
Committee United Republican Clubs, and spoke as
follows:
My Friends—You have already been told that this reception was
not planned by me, and yet I do not regret that I have yielded to
the urgent solicitation of your representatives and have consented
to stand for a few moments in the presence of this magnificent
and instructive audience. [Applause.] I say instructive, for that
public man is dull indeed who does not gather both instruction and
inspiration from such meetings as this. [Applause.] I thank you
for any measure of personal respect and interest which your coming
here to-night may witness, but I do not see in this immense
gathering any testimony that is personal to me. I prefer to regard
it as another witness added to the long number I have seen before
of the deep-seated and earnest interest of our people in the public
questions that are to be settled in November. [Applause.] I
choose rather to regard it as a pledge that this interest you manifest
in me to-night will not stop here, but is the pledge of continued
and earnest personal work by each one of you for those principles
which have won the consent of your minds and the love of your
hearts. [Applause.] I cannot enter in any detail into the discussion
of public questions; I would not at all put myself between
you and these great, important issues. I would, in all I may say,
put them to the front. We are here citizens of a great, prosperous,
magnificent Nation. We have common interests. We are here
charged with the common duties to perpetuate, if we can, the
prosperity and to maintain the honor of this great Republic.
[Applause.] We are here to-night in the enjoyment of free government.
We are here in the individual possession of better opportunities
of development, of a larger prosperity, and of more individual
comfort than are possessed by any other people in the world.
[Applause.] The great economic question as to what shall be our
future legislative policy is stated with a distinctness in this cam[96]paign
that it has never had before, and I believe the verdict and
decision will have an emphasis and finality that it has never had
before. [Applause.] If there is any one here present to-night that
knows of any land that spreads a more promising sky of hope
above the heads of the poor and the laboring man than this, I
would be glad if he would name it. The one fact that I do not
need to stop to demonstrate by statistics, the one fact that I could
call out of this vast audience hundreds of witnesses to support by
their personal testimony, is that the scale of American wages is
higher than that of any other country in the world. [Applause.]
If this were not true, why is it that the workingmen and the
working-women of the older lands turn their faces hitherward? If
there is a better country, one that offers better wages, fuller hopes
than this, why is it that those who are in quest of such better
things have not found it out and turned their faces thitherward?
Now, if that is true, then why is it true, and how is it to be continued—this
condition of our country? It is because, and only
because, we have for years, by our protective tariff, discriminated
in favor of American manufacturers and American workingmen.
[Applause.] Strike down this protective system, bring our workingmen
and working-women in equal competition in the products
of their toil with those who labor abroad, and nothing is clearer
than that these mills and factories must reduce wages here to
the level with wages abroad, or they must shut down. You have
the choice to make; you, the free citizens of this country, whose
ballots sway its destiny, will settle these questions in November.
[Applause.] I ask you how? Don't be deceived by the suggestion
that this is any contest over a seven per cent. reduction in the tariff
schedule. We are allowed now to say, I think, that all those who
are entitled to speak for the Democratic party have declared that
it is opposed to protection. That being so, the issue is clearly,
distinctly, strongly drawn. I beg you all—not in my interest, but
in your own; in the interest of your families and the country you
love—to ponder this question; to think upon it with that seriousness
its importance demands, and when you have thought it out, settle
it, settle it in November, so that we shall be free for years to come
from this agitation in behalf of free trade. [Great applause.]
I thank you again for this kindly demonstration. I beg you to
accept these brief suggestions as the only but inadequate return
that I can make you for this kindness. [Applause.]
Theresidents of Put-in-Bay Island, about five hundred
in number, tendered General Harrison a reception on the
thirty-first of August. The steamboats from Cleveland,
Detroit, Toledo, and Sandusky brought several thousand
excursionists. General Harrison and his party on their
arrival from Middle Bass Island were met at the pier by
all the residents of Put-in-Bay Island, headed by their
most distinguished citizen John Brown, Jr., son of the
celebrated "Ossawatomie" Brown, of Harper's Ferry
fame.
From a pavilion in the adjacent grove John Brown
introduced Hon. Charles Foster, who said:
Fellow-citizens—General Harrison came to Middle Bass for the
purpose of rest and quiet. At the solicitation of a number of people
of this section of country—a great number, I might say—he
has kindly consented to give a reception here to-day, upon one
condition—that he was not to make a speech. Now, fellow-citizens,
I have the very great pleasure of presenting to you General Benjamin
Harrison, the Republican candidate for the presidency.
[Applause.]
As Governor Foster concluded, General Harrison arose
midst a shout of welcome and spoke as follows:
My Friends—I have found Governor Foster to be a very agreeable
and thoughtful host, and I find him to-day to be the most agreeable
master of ceremonies who has ever attended me at a public reception.
I like his announcement of the condition under which I
appear before you to-day.
I never enjoy a banquet when my name is on the programme for
a toast. I do not, therefore, intend to speak to you about any of
those questions that are engaging your minds as citizens of this
prosperous and mighty and happy Nation. We are here to-day as
Americans, proud of the flag that symbolizes this great Union of
States; proud of the story that has been written by our fathers in
council and in war, in the formation and defence and perpetuation
of our magnificent institutions, We are here in the immediate
neighborhood of one of those great historic events that was among[98]the most potential agencies in settling our title to the great Northwest.
If we had stood where we stand to-day we could have heard
the guns of Perry's fleet. If we had stood where we stand to-day
we could have welcomed him as he came a victor into Put-in-Bay.
These institutions of ours are in our own keeping now, and not
only our fundamental institutions, but the fame that has been won
by those who have gone before. I may therefore properly say to-day
that a campaign like this demands the thoughtful consideration
of every American voter. We are prosperous. [Cheers.] The
story of our prosperity, of our development in wealth, of our achievements
in finance as a Nation, since and during the war, is almost
as notable and almost as admirable as that of our achievements in
arms.
The assembling of our revenue was even more difficult than the
assembling of armies, and yet we were able to maintain those
armies in the field, and have been able since not only to bear up
the great load of debt, but to pay it off, until that which was once
thought to be a burden that would crush our industries has come
to be in our hands but as the ball the boy tosses in play [cheers];
and we are to-day confronted with the question, not how we shall
get money, but how we shall wisely stop some of those avenues by
which wealth is pouring into our public treasury.
It is an easier problem than that which confronted the great war
Secretary, in whose name you so delight—how to raise revenue
to prosecute the war successfully. It will be wisely solved. And
may I note also the fact that, notwithstanding this complaint of
excessive revenue, there are some who suggest that they are not
able adequately to arouse the popular indignation against excessive
taxation because they cannot disclose to the people when or how
they are paying the taxes? [Applause.] It is taken, they say, so
indirectly and so subtly that these—our plain people—don't know
that they are paying them at all. [Applause.] But I must not
cross this line of party discussion. I have had a pleasant stay in
this most delightful neighborhood, and I cannot let this public
opportunity pass without expressing, for myself and for Mrs. Harrison,
our grateful appreciation of the kind and thoughtful hospitality
which has been shown to us by the people of these islands. [Prolonged
applause.]
General Harrisonand party,en routehome from
Middle Bass Island, arrived at Toledo on the evening of
Sept. 3, and were again the guests of Wm. Cummings.
At night they were tendered a reception by Mr. and Mrs.
John Berdan, at their residence.
On the morning of Sept. 4 the party started homeward.
The first stop was at Fort Wayne, where several thousand
Hoosiers welcomed their leader. Supt. Wall, of the Pittsburg
and Fort Wayne Railroad, introduced the general,
who spoke as follows:
My Friends—I desire to thank you for this cordial demonstration.
I thank you not so much for myself as for the party to which most
of us have given the consent of our minds. I am glad to know
that the people are moved to a thoughtful consideration of those
questions which are this year presented for their determination.
Under a popular government like ours it is of the first importance
that every man who votes should have some reason for his vote;
that every man who attaches himself to this or that political party
should intelligently understand both the creed and the purposes of
the party to which he belongs. I think it is universally conceded
by Democrats as well as by Republicans that the questions involved
in this campaign do have a very direct bearing upon the national
prosperity, and upon the prosperity and welfare of the individual
citizen. I think it is conceded that the result of this election will
affect beneficently or injuriously our great manufacturing interests,
and will affect for weal or for woe the workingmen and working-women
who fill these busy hives of industry. [Applause.] This
much is conceded. I do not intend to-day to argue the question in
any detail. I want to call your attention to a few general facts
and principles, and the first one—the one I never tire of mentioning;
the one I deem so important that I do not shun the charge
that I am repeating myself—is this: that the condition of the wage-workers
of America is better than that of the wage-workers of any
other country in the world. [Applause.] Now, if that be true, it
is important that you should each find out why it is so; that each
one of you should determine for himself what effect a protective
tariff has had and is likely to have upon his wages and his pros[100]perity.
Does it need to be demonstrated that if we reduce our tariff
to a revenue level, if we abolish from it every consideration of protection,
more goods will come in from abroad than come in now?
And what is the necessary effect? It is the transfer to foreign shops
of work that you need here; it is to diminish American production
and increase English production.
That is to be the effect of it. It is, not worth while to stand
upon nice definitions as to free trade. Some think it enough to
say that they are not free-traders because they are not in favor of
abolishing all customs duties. Let me remind such that the free-trade
countries of Europe, recognized to be such, have not abolished
all customs duties. A better distinction is this: The free-trader
believes in levying customs duties without any regard to the effect
of those duties upon the wages of our working people, or upon the
production of our own shops. This, then, is the issue. Take it
to your homes. There are many confusing and contradictory statements
made in the public press and by public speakers. Ask any
of those who assail our protective system whether they do not
believe that if their policy is adopted a larger amount of foreign-made
goods will come into this country. It is their purpose to
increase importation in order to cheapen prices. I think I may
safely ask you to consider the question whether this cheapening
of prices, which they seem to regard as the highest attainment of
statesmanship, is consistent with the rate of wages that our working
people enjoy now, whether it will not involve—if we are to
have foreign competition without favoring duties—a reduction of
American wages to the standard of the wages paid abroad.
[Applause.] Do you believe for one moment that two factories
making the same product can be maintained in competition when
one pays thirty-three per cent. more to its workingmen than the
other? Is it not certain that wages must be equalized in those
competing establishments or the one paying the higher wages must
shut down? [Applause and cries, "That's the thing!"] Here in
this city of Fort Wayne, so important and so prosperous, we have a
fine illustration of the accruing advantages of a large factory and
shop population. It has made your city prosperous as well as populous,
and it has made these outlying Allen County farms vastly
more valuable than they otherwise would have been. These interests
harmonize. But I only want to ask you to think upon these questions;
settle them in your own minds, for it is agreed by all that,
as they shall be settled one way or the other, your interests and
those of your families and of this community, and of every other
like community in this country, are to be affected, favorably or[101]unfavorably. May I not appeal to you to review these questions,
to throw off the shackles of preconceived notions and of party prejudices,
and consider them anew in the light of all the information
that is accessible to you? If you shall do that I do not doubt that
the working people of this country will this November forever
settle the question that American customs duties shall by intention,
by forethought, have regard to the wages of our working people.
[Applause.]
And now, if you will pardon further speech, I shall be glad to
avail myself of the arrangements which the committee have provided
to greet personally any of you who may desire to greet me.
[Prolonged applause and cheers.]
Thenext stop was at Huntington, where two thousand
people were congregated.
In response to repeated calls General Harrison said:
My Friends—Our stop here is altogether too brief for me to
attempt to speak; yet I cannot refrain from expressing to you, my
friends of Huntington County, my sincere and grateful appreciation
for the evidence of your kindness in welcoming me so cordially to
my home after a brief absence. I have not travelled very far this
time, but I have seen nothing either on this visit, or any more
extended visit that I have heretofore made, to win away my interests
and affection from the great State of Indiana. [Great applause.]
It is great in the capabilities, both of its soil and its citizenship
[applause]; great in its achievements during the war. When our
country was imperilled no State more nobly or magnificently responded
to the demands which were made by the general Government
for men to fight and to die for the flag. [Applause.] I am
glad to greet in this audience to-day my comrades of the war, and
all who have gathered here. I beg to thank you again for your
kindness.
AtPeru a committee, headed by Hon. A. C. Bearss and
Giles W. Smith, waited upon General Harrison, who
addressed an audience of over two thousand as follows:
My Friends—I am very much obliged to you for that kindness
of feeling which your gathering here to-day evinces. I have had
a brief visit for rest, and I am come back to my home with very
kind feelings toward my friends in Indiana, who have, not only
during this important campaign, but always, when I have appealed
to them, treated me with the utmost consideration. I have not
time to-day to discuss the issues of this campaign. They are extremely
important, and they will have a direct bearing upon the
prosperity of our country. I can only ask you to think of them,
and not to mistake the issue. It is very plain. It is the question of
whether our tariff laws shall be a protection to American workingmen
and a protection to American manufacturing establishments.
Those who advocate tariff for revenue only do not take any thought
of our wage-workers, but let their interests take care of themselves.
On the other hand the Republican party believes that high regard
should be paid to the question what the effect will be upon wages
and upon the protection of our American shops. Those who believe
the doctrine agree with us; and those who assail it, and say it is
unconstitutional, as has recently been said by a distinguished citizen,
would destroy our protective system if they could. We must
believe so, because we must impute to them sincerity in what they
say. I believe this campaign will settle for many years to come
the question of whether legislation shall be intelligently directed
in favor of the doctrine that we will, so far as may be, see that our
farmers may find home consumers for their home product, and that
these populous manufacturing centres may give a larger value to
the farms that lie about them. You have these questions to settle.
They affect your interests as citizens. I am sure that everything
that regards them, as well as everything that regards the candidate,
may be safely left in the kind hands of these intelligent citizens of
Indiana and of the United States. [Great cheering.]
Thecity of Kokomo welcomed the party in the evening
with a brilliant illumination by natural gas. Three thousand
people were present. General Harrison said:
My Friends—I very much appreciate this spontaneous evidence
of your friendliness. That so many of you should have gathered
here this evening to greet us on our return home after a brief
absence from the State is very gratifying to me. Kokomo has
been for many years a very prosperous place. It has been the happy
home of a very intelligent and very thrifty people. You are now,
however, realizing a development more rapid and much greater
than the most sanguine among you could have anticipated three
years ago. The large increase in the number and business of your
manufacturing establishments, the coming here from other parts of
the country of enterprising men with their capital to set up manufacturing
plants, has excited your interest and has promoted
your development. There is not a resident of Kokomo, there is not
a resident of Howard County, who does not rejoice in this great
prosperity. I am sure there is not a man or woman in this city
who does not realize that this new condition of things gives to
your boys, who are growing up, new avenues of useful thrift. It
opens to those who might otherwise have pursued common labor
access to skilled trades and higher compensation. There is not a
merchant in Kokomo who does not appreciate the added trade
which comes to his store. There is not a farmer in Howard County
who has not realized the benefits of a home market for his crops
[applause and cries of "Good!"], and especially for those perishable
products of the farm which do not bear distant transportation.
Now I submit to your consideration, in the light of these new
facts, whether you have not a very deep interest in the protection
of our domestic industries and the maintenance of the American
standard of wages. There can be no mistaking the issue this year.
In previous campaigns it has been observed by evasive platform
declarations. It is now so clear that all men can understand it.
I would leave this thought with you: Will the prosperity that is
now realized by you, and that greater prosperity which you anticipate,
be better advanced by the continuance of the protective
policy or by its destruction?
AtTipton Junction, where several hundred people had
congregated, General Harrison said:
My Friends—There is no time this evening for me to say more
than that I thank you very sincerely for this cordial evidence of
your kindly feeling. I will not have time to discuss any public
questions. You will consider them for yourselves, and can have
ready access to all necessary information.
AtNoblesville the train was met by a special from
Indianapolis, bearing the Columbia Club, a uniformed
organization of three hundred prominent young men, who
had come to escort General Harrison to his home.
To the assembled citizens of Noblesville the general
said:
My Friends—You are very kind, and I am grateful for this manifestation
of your kindness. I cannot speak to you at any length to-night.
You are in the "gas belt" of Indiana. The result of the
discovery of this new fuel has been the rapid development of your
towns. You have shown your enterprise by hospitably opening
the way for the coming of new industrial enterprises. You have
felt it worth while not only to invite them, but to offer pecuniary
inducements for them to come. If it has been worth while to do
so much in the hope of developing your town and to add value to
your farms by making a home market for your farm product, is it
not also worth your while so to vote this fall as to save and enlarge
these new industrial enterprises? [Applause.] Let me acknowledge
a new debt of gratitude to my friends of Hamilton County,
who have often before made me their debtor, and bid you good-night.
Thehome-coming of General Harrison was a veritable
ovation. Fifteen thousand people greeted and accompanied
him to his residence, led by the Columbia Club, the
Veterans' Regiment, and the Railroad Men's Club. Escorted
by Gen. Foster, Daniel M. Ransdell, and W. N.
Harding, General Harrison—standing in his own door—facing
the great assembly, said:
My Friends—Two weeks ago to-day I left Indianapolis quietly
for a brief season of rest. We met in Ohio very considerate and
hospitable friends, who allowed nothing to be lacking to the enjoyment
and comfort of our brief vacation. But, notwithstanding all
the attractions of that island home in Lake Erie, we are to-night
very happy to be again at home. The enthusiastic welcome you
have extended to us has added grace and joy. I think I may
conclude that nothing has happened since I have been gone that
has disturbed your confidence or diminished your respect. [Great
applause and cries of "No! no!"] At the outset of this campaign
I said I would confidently commit all that was personal to myself
to the keeping of the intelligent and fair-minded citizens of Indiana.
[Applause.] We will go on our way in this campaign upon that
high and dignified plane upon which it has been pitched, so far as
it lay in our power, commending the principles of our party to
the intelligent interest of our fellow-citizens, and trusting to truth
and right for the victory. [Applause.] Most gratefully I acknowledge
the affectionate interest which has been shown to-night by my
old comrades of the war. [Applause.] I am glad to know that in
this veteran organization there are many who have heretofore
differed with me in political opinion, but who are drawn in this
campaign, by a sense of our common interests, to cast in their
influence with us. I desire also to thank the Railroad Club for
their kind greetings. There has been a special significance in
their friendly organization, and I am grateful, also, to the members
of the Columbia Club for their part in this demonstration.
Now, with an overwhelming sense of inability to respond fittingly
to your cordiality and kindness, I can only thank you once more
and bid you good-night. [Applause.]
Onthe night of Sept. 6 General Harrison, in company
with General A. P. Hovey, Ex-Gov. A. G. Porter, Hon.
James N. Huston, Hon. R. B. F. Pierce, Judge Walker,
and other friends, reviewed from the balcony of the New-Denison
Hotel ten thousand marching Republicans.
It was one of the most brilliant and successful demonstrations
of the campaign. The great line was composed of
eighty-two Republican clubs and associations of the city
of Indianapolis, commanded by Chief Marshal Hon. Geo.
W. Spahr, assisted by the following mounted aids:
Major Geo. Herriott, Moses G. McLain, Dan'l M. Ransdell,
Thomas F. Ryan, W. H. H. Miller, John B. Elam,
Dr. Austin Morris, Col. I. N. Walker, Wm. L. Taylor,
W. A. Pattison, Capt. O. H. Hibben, Charles Murray,
Ed. Thompson, Charles Wright, S. D. Pray, J. E. Haskell,
Wm. Thomas, W. H. Tucker, Joseph Forbes, Ed.
Harmon, Lou Wade, John W. Bowlus, M. L. Johnson,
Miles Reynolds, W. E. Tousey, R. H. Rees, and W. D.
Wiles.
The column was divided into four divisions, commanded
by Col. N. R. Ruckle, Col. James B. Black, Horace
McKay, and Hon. Stanton J. Peelle. A great mass-meeting
followed the parade, and the issues of the campaign
were presented by General Hovey, Gov. Porter and Hon.
John M. Butler.
General Harrisonon this date received perhaps the
most unique delegation of the campaign: a band of one
hundred girls and misses, aged from seven to fifteen years,
organized by Mrs. Mattie McCorkle. At their head rode
Master Charles Pettijohn, six years old, mounted upon a[107]pony, followed by a drum corps of eight young boys. The
girls marched four abreast, dressed in uniforms of red,
white and blue, carrying mounted Japanese lanterns.
They were commanded by Miss Florence Schilling. After
singing "Marching through Georgia," Master Pettijohn,
on behalf of the young ladies, presented the general a
handsome bouquet and made an address. General Harrison
honored the young orator and the club with a speech,
and said:
When some one asked this afternoon, over the telephone, if I
would receive some children who wanted to pay me a visit, I gave
a very cheerful consent, because I thought I saw a chance to have
a good time. That you little ones would demand a speech from
me never entered my mind, nor did I expect to see a company so
prettily uniformed and so well drilled, both in marching and in
song.
Children have always been attractive to me. I have found not
only entertainment but instruction in their companionship. Little
ones often say wise things. In the presence of such a company as
this, one who has any aspirations for the things that are good and
pure cannot fail to have them strengthened. The kind words you
have addressed to me in song come, I am sure, from sincere and
loving hearts, and I am very grateful for them and for your visit.
Some of the best friends I have are under ten years of age, and after
to-night I am sure I shall have many more, for all your names will
be added.
And now I hope you will all come in where we can see you and
show you whatever there is in our home to interest you. I would
like you all to feel that we will be glad if you will come to see us
often.
General Harrison'svisitors to-day comprised six
hundred G. A. R. veterans and their wives from Northwestern
Kansas—en routeto the Grand Encampment—under
the lead of General W. H. Caldwell, Frank McGrath,
C. E. Monell, W. S. Search, Dr. A. Patten, J. W. Garner,
and Dr. J. R. King, of Beloit, Kan. Colonel W. C.[108]Whitney, Commander of the First Division, was orator,
and assured General Harrison that "Kansas grew more
corn and more babies than any other State in the Union."
In response the General said:
My Comrades—I have a choice to make and you have one. I
can occupy the few moments I have to spare either in public address
or in private, personal greeting. I think you would prefer, as I
shall prefer, to omit the public speech that I may be presented to
each of you. [Cries of "Good! Good!"] I beg you, therefore, to
permit me only to say that I very heartily appreciate this greeting
from my comrades of Kansas.
The bond that binds us together as soldiers of the late war is one
that is enduring and close. No party considerations can break it;
it is stronger than political ties, and we are able thus in our Grand
Army associations to come together upon that broad and high plane
of fraternity, loyalty, and charity. [Applause and cries of "Good!
Good!"] Let me now, if it be your pleasure, extend a comrade's
hand to each of you. [Applause.]
Hon. M. M. Estee and others, Committee, etc.:
Gentlemen—When your committee visited me, on the Fourth of
July last, and presented the official announcement of my nomination
for the presidency of the United States by the Republican convention,
I promised as soon as practicable to communicate to you a
more formal acceptance of the nomination. Since that time the
work of receiving and addressing, almost daily, large delegations
of my fellow-citizens has not only occupied all of my time, but has
in some measure rendered it unnecessary for me to use this letter
as a medium of communicating to the public my views upon the
questions involved in the campaign. I appreciate very highly the
confidence and respect manifested by the convention, and accept
the nomination with a feeling of gratitude and a full sense of the
responsibilities which accompany it.
It is a matter of congratulation that the declarations of the Chicago
convention upon the questions that now attract the interest of
our people are so clear and emphatic. There is further cause of
congratulation in the fact that the convention utterances of the
Democratic party, if in any degree uncertain or contradictory, can[109]now be judged and interpreted by executive acts and messages,
and by definite propositions in legislation. This is especially true
of what is popularly known as the Tariff question. The issue cannot
now be obscured. It is not a contest between schedules, but
between wide-apart principles. The foreign competitors for our
market have, with quick instinct, seen how one issue of this contest
may bring them advantage, and our own people are not so dull
as to miss or neglect the grave interests that are involved for them.
The assault upon our protective system is open and defiant. Protection
is assailed as unconstitutional in law, or as vicious in principle,
and those who hold such views sincerely cannot stop short
of an absolute elimination from our tariff laws of the principle of
protection. The Mills bill is only a step, but it is toward an object
that the leaders of Democratic thought and legislation have clearly
in mind. The important question is not so much the length of
the step as the direction of it. Judged by the executive message
of December last, by the Mills bill, by the debates in Congress, and
by the St. Louis platform, the Democratic party will, if supported
by the country, place the tariff laws upon a purely revenue basis.
This is practical free trade—free trade in the English sense. The
legend upon the banner may not be "Free Trade"—it may be the
more obscure motto, "Tariff Reform;" but neither the banner nor
the inscription is conclusive, or, indeed, very important. The assault
itself is the important fact.
Those who teach that the import duty upon foreign goods sold
in our market is paid by the consumer, and that the price of the
domestic competing article is enhanced to the amount of the duty
on the imported article—that every million of dollars collected for
customs duties represents many millions more which do not reach
the treasury, but are paid by our citizens as the increased cost of
domestic productions resulting from the tariff laws—may not intend
to discredit in the minds of others our system of levying duties on
competing foreign products, but it is clearly already discredited in
their own. We cannot doubt, without impugning their integrity,
that if free to act upon their convictions they would so revise our
laws as to lay the burden of the customs revenue upon articles that
are not produced in this country, and to place upon the free list
all competing foreign products. I do not stop to refute this theory
as to the effect of our tariff duties. Those who advance it are
students of maxims and not of the markets. They may be safely
allowed to call their project "Tariff Reform," if the people understand
that in the end the argument compels free trade in all competing
products. This end may not be reached abruptly, and its[110]approach may be accompanied with some expressions of sympathy
for our protected industries and our working people, but it will
certainly come if these early steps do not arouse the people to effective
resistance.
The Republican party holds that a protective tariff is constitutional,
wholesome, and necessary. We do not offer a fixed schedule,
but a principle. We will revise the schedule, modify rates, but
always with an intelligent provision as to the effect upon domestic
productions and the wages of our working people. We believe it
to be one of the worthy objects of tariff legislation to preserve
the American market for American producers, and to maintain the
American scale of wages by adequate discriminative duties upon
foreign competing products. The effect of lower rates and larger
importations upon the public revenue is contingent and doubtful,
but not so the effect upon American production and American
wages. Less work and lower wages must be accepted as the inevitable
result of the increased offering of foreign goods in our market.
By way of recompense for this reduction in his wages, and
the loss of the American market, it is suggested that the diminished
wages of the workingman will have an undiminished purchasing
power, and that he will be able to make up for the loss of the home
market by an enlarged foreign market. Our workingmen have
the settlement of the question in their own hands. They now
obtain higher wages and live more comfortably than those of any
other country. They will make choice of the substantial advantages
they have in hand and the deceptive promises and forecasts
of these theorizing reformers. They will decide for themselves and
for their country whether the protective system shall be continued
or destroyed.
The fact of a treasury surplus, the amount of which is variously
stated, has directed public attention to a consideration of the
methods by which the national income may best be reduced to the
level of a wise and necessary expenditure. This condition has
been seized upon by those who are hostile to protective customs
duties as an advantageous base of attack upon our tariff laws.
They have magnified and nursed the surplus, which they affect to
deprecate, seemingly for the purpose of exaggerating the evil, in
order to reconcile the people to the extreme remedy they propose.
A proper reduction of the revenues does not necessitate, and should
not suggest, the abandonment or impairment of the protective system.
The methods suggested by our convention will not need to
be exhausted in order to effect the necessary reduction. We are
not likely to be called upon, I think, to make a present choice[111]between the surrender of the protective system and the entire repeal
of the internal taxes. Such a contingency, in view of the present
relation of expenditures to revenues, is remote. The inspection
and regulation of the manufacture and sale of oleomargarine is
important, and the revenue derived from it is not so great that the
repeal of the law need enter into any plan of revenue reduction.
The surplus now in the treasury should be used in the purchase of
bonds. The law authorizes this use of it, and if it is not needed
for current or deficiency appropriations, the people, and not the
banks in which it has been deposited, should have the advantage
of its use by stopping interest upon the public debt. At least those
who needlessly hoard it should not be allowed to use the fear of
a monetary stringency, thus produced, to coerce public sentiment
upon other questions.
Closely connected with the subject of the tariff is that of the
importation of foreign laborers under contracts of service to be performed
here. The law now in force prohibiting such contracts
received my cordial support in the Senate, and such amendments
as may be found necessary effectively to deliver our working men
and women from this most inequitable form of competition will
have my sincere advocacy. Legislation prohibiting the importation
of laborers under contract to serve here will, however, afford
very inadequate relief to our working people if the system of protective
duties is broken down. If the products of American shops
must compete in the American market, without favoring duties,
with the products of cheap foreign labor the effect will be different,
if at all, only in degree, whether the cheap laborer is across
the street or over the sea. Such competition will soon reduce wages
here to the level of those abroad, and when that condition is
reached we will not need any laws forbidding the importation of
laborers under contract—they will have no inducement to come,
and the employer no inducement to send for them.
In the earlier years of our history public agencies to promote
immigration were common. The pioneer wanted a neighbor with
more friendly instincts than the Indian. Labor was scarce and
fully employed. But the day of the immigration bureau has gone
by. While our doors will continue open to proper immigration,
we do not need to issue special invitations to the inhabitants of
other countries to come to our shores or to share our citizenship.
Indeed, the necessity of some inspection and limitation is obvious.
We should resolutely refuse to permit foreign governments
to send their paupers and criminals to our ports. We are also
clearly under a duty to defend our civilization by excluding alien[112]races whose ultimate assimilation with our people is neither possible
nor desirable. The family has been the nucleus of our best
immigration, and the home the most potent assimilating force in
our civilization.
The objections to Chinese immigration are distinctive and conclusive,
and are now so generally accepted as such that the question
has passed entirely beyond the stage of argument. The laws relating
to this subject would, if I should be charged with their enforcement,
be faithfully executed. Such amendments or further legislation
as may be necessary and proper to prevent evasions of the laws
and to stop further Chinese immigration would also meet my approval.
The expression of the convention upon this subject is in
entire harmony with my views.
Our civil compact is a government by majorities, and the law loses
its sanction and the magistrate our respect when this compact is
broken. The evil results of election frauds do not expend themselves
upon the voters who are robbed of their rightful influence in
public affairs. The individual or community or party that practises
or connives at election frauds has suffered irreparable injury,
and will sooner or later realize that to exchange the American
system of majority rule for minority control is not only unlawful
and unpatriotic, but very unsafe for those who promote it. The
disfranchisement of a single legal elector by fraud or intimidation
is a crime too grave to be regarded lightly. The right of every
qualified elector to cast one free ballot and to have it honestly
counted must not be questioned. Every constitutional power should
be used to make this right secure and to punish frauds upon the
ballot.
Our colored people do not ask special legislation in their interest,
but only to be made secure in the common rights of American citizenship.
They will, however, naturally mistrust the sincerity of
those party leaders who appeal to their race for support only in
those localities where the suffrage is free and election results
doubtful, and compass their disfranchisement where their votes
would be controlling and their choice cannot be coerced.
The Nation, not less than the States, is dependent for prosperity
and security upon the intelligence and morality of the people.
This common interest very early suggested national aid in the
establishment and endowment of schools and colleges in the new
States. There is, I believe, a present exigency that calls for still
more liberal and direct appropriations in aid of common-school
education in the States.
The territorial form of government is a temporary expedient,[113]not a permanent civil condition. It is adapted to the exigency
that suggested it, but becomes inadequate, and even oppressive,
when applied to fixed and populous communities. Several Territories
are well able to bear the burdens and discharge the duties of
free commonwealths in the American Union. To exclude them
is to deny the just rights of their people, and may well excite their
indignant protest. No question of the political preference of the
people of a Territory should close against them the hospitable door
which has opened to two-thirds of the existing States. But admissions
should be resolutely refused to any Territory a majority
of whose people cherish institutions that are repugnant to our
civilization or inconsistent with a republican form of government.
The declaration of the convention against "all combinations of
capital, organized in trusts or otherwise, to control arbitrarily the
condition of trade among our citizens," is in harmony with the
views entertained and publicly expressed by me long before the
assembling of the convention. Ordinarily, capital shares the losses
of idleness with labor; but under the operation of the trust, in
some of its forms, the wageworker alone suffers loss, while idle
capital receives its dividends from a trust fund. Producers who
refuse to join the combination are destroyed, and competition as
an element of prices is eliminated. It cannot be doubted that the
legislative authority should and will find a method of dealing fairly
and effectively with those and other abuses connected with this
subject.
It can hardly be necessary for me to say that I am heartily in
sympathy with the declaration of the convention upon the subject
of pensions to our soldiers and sailors. What they gave and what
they suffered I had some opportunity to observe, and, in a small
measure, to experience. They gave ungrudgingly; it was not a
trade, but an offering. The measure was heaped up, running over.
What they achieved only a distant generation can adequately tell.
Without attempting to discuss particular propositions, I may add
that measures in behalf of the surviving veterans of the war and of
the families of their dead comrades should be conceived and executed
in a spirit of justice and of the most grateful liberality, and
that, in the competition for civil appointments, honorable military
service should have appropriate recognition.
The law regulating appointments to the classified civil service
received my support in the Senate in the belief that it opened the
way to a much-needed reform. I still think so, and, therefore,
cordially approve the clear and forcible expression of the convention
upon this subject. The law should have the aid of a friendly[114]interpretation and be faithfully and vigorously enforced. All appointments
under it should be absolutely free from partisan considerations
and influence. Some extensions of the classified list
are practicable and desirable, and further legislation extending the
reform to other branches of the service to which it is applicable
would receive my approval. In appointment to every grade and
department, fitness, and not party service, should be the essential
and discriminating test, and fidelity and efficiency the only sure
tenure of office. Only the interests of the public service should suggest
removals from office. I know the practical difficulties attending
the attempt to apply the spirit of the civil service rules to all
appointments and removals. It will, however, be my sincere purpose,
if elected, to advance the reform.
I notice with pleasure that the convention did not omit to
express its solicitude for the promotion of virtue and temperance
among our people. The Republican party has always been friendly
to everything that tended to make the home life of our people free,
pure, and prosperous, and will in the future be true to its history
in this respect.
Our relations with foreign powers should be characterized by
friendliness and respect. The right of our people and of our ships
to hospitable treatment should be insisted upon with dignity and
firmness. Our Nation is too great, both in material strength and
in moral power, to indulge in bluster or to be suspected of timorousness.
Vacillation and inconsistency are as incompatible with
successful diplomacy as they are with the national dignity. We
should especially cultivate and extend our diplomatic and commercial
relations with the Central and South American States. Our
fisheries should be fostered and protected. The hardships and
risks that are the necessary incidents of the business should not
be increased by an inhospitable exclusion from the near-lying ports.
The resources of a firm, dignified, and consistent diplomacy are undoubtedly
equal to the prompt and peaceful solution of the difficulties
that now exist. Our neighbors will surely not expect in our
ports a commercial hospitality they deny to us in theirs.
I cannot extend this letter by a special reference to other subjects
upon which the convention gave an expression.
In respect to them, as well as to those I have noticed, I am in
entire agreement with the declarations of the convention. The
resolutions relating to the coinage, to the rebuilding of the navy,
to coast defences, and to public lands, express conclusions to all of
which I gave my support in the Senate.
Inviting a calm and thoughtful consideration of these public[115]questions, we submit them to the people. Their intelligent patriotism
and the good Providence that made and has kept us a Nation
will lead them to wise and safe conclusions.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Reunion of the Seventieth Indiana Regiment.
General Harrison, accompanied by Mrs. Harrison
and Mrs. McKee, on September 13 attended the fourteenth
reunion of the Seventieth Indiana Regimental Association
at Clayton village, Hendricks County.
The Seventieth Regiment was recruited from the counties
of Hendricks, Johnson and Marion. Of the one hundred
and fifty-nine regiments sent to the front by Indiana,
but few, if any, achieved a more honorable and distinguished
record. It was the first regiment to report for
duty under President Lincoln's call of July, '62, and was
recruited in less than a month by Second Lieutenant
Benjamin Harrison.
After the regiment had been recruited Lieutenant Harrison
was elected Captain of Company A, and when the
regiment was organized, August 7, 1862, Captain Harrison
was commissioned its colonel. It left Indianapolis for
the front August 13, 1862, and returned thirty-four months
later, with a loss of 189 men. It participated in eleven
engagements, including Resaca, Kenesaw, Marietta, Peach
Tree Creek, Atlanta, Savannah and Bentonville. The regiment
was a part of Sherman's army, and was attached
to the First Brigade, Third Division, Twentieth Corps.
For several years past General Harrison has been successively
chosen President of the Regimental Association.
Several hundred veterans, with their families, accompanied
the General from Indianapolis, and were greeted at
Clayton by five thousand people. Three hundred veterans
of the Seventieth saluted their Colonel as he walked[116]to the front and, assuming command, led the column
to a neighboring grove, where the exercises of the day
were held. It was the largest reunion in the history
of the Association. Among the prominent non-resident
members in attendance were Lieutenant-Colonel James
Burghs, of Topeka; Capt. Wm. M. Meredith, Chicago (he
was captain of Company E, the color company of the regiment);
Captain Tansey, now Judge, of Winfield, Kansas;
Captain Willis Record, of Nebraska; Lieutenant Hardenbrook
and Private Snow, of Kansas, and Cyrus Butterfield,
of Minneapolis. The orator of the day was Comrade
J. M. Brown.
General Harrison, as President of the Association, presided.
The proceedings were opened with prayer by Comrade
J. H. Meteer, followed by an address of welcome by
Miss Mary L. Mitchell, daughter of Captain W. C.
Mitchell, who directed her closing remarks to General Harrison.
With great earnestness the General replied as follows:
Miss Mitchell—I feel quite incompetent to discharge the duty that
now devolves upon me—that of making suitable response to the
touching, cordial and sympathetic words which you have addressed
to us. We thank you and the good citizens of Clayton, for whom
you have spoken, that you have opened your hearts so fully to us
to-day. I am sure we have never assembled under circumstances
more attractive than those that now surround us. The mellow sunshine
of this autumn-time that falls upon us, the balmy air which
moves the leaves of those shadowing trees, the sweet calm and spell
of nature that is over everything, makes the day one of those that
may be described in the language of the old poet as
Your hospitable welcome makes us feel at home, and in behalf
of this large representation of our regiment, possibly the largest
that has assembled since the close of the war, gathered not only
from these adjacent counties, but from distant homes beyond the
Mississippi and the Missouri, I give you to-day in return our
most hearty thanks for your great kindness.
The autumn-time is a fit time for our gathering, for our spring-time
is gone. It was in the spring-time of our lives that we heard[117]our country's call. Full of vigor and youth and patriotism, we
responded to it. The exhaustion of march and camp and battle, and
the civil strife of the years that have passed since the close of the
war, have left their marks upon us, and, as we gather from year
to year, we notice the signs of advancing age, and the roster of
our dead is lengthened. We are reminded by the minutes of our
last meeting, that have been read, of the presence at our last reunion
of that faithful and beloved officer who went out from this county,
Major Reagan. With a prophetic instinct of what was before him,
he told us then that it was probably the last time that he should
gather with us. God has verified the thought that was in his mind,
and that simple, true-hearted, brave comrade has been enrolled
with the larger company. We are glad to-day to be together, yet
our gladness is sobered. As I look into those familiar faces I notice
a deep sense of satisfaction, but I have not failed to observe that
there are tears in many eyes. We are not moved to tears by any
sense of regret that we gave some service to our country and to its
flag, but only by the sense that we are not all here to-day, and
that all who are here will never gather again in a meeting like
this. We rejoice that we were permitted to make some contribution
to the glory and credit and perpetuity of the Nation we love.
[Applause.]
Comrades who served under other regimental flags and who have
gathered here with us to-day, we do not boast of higher motives or
greater service than yours. We welcome you to a participation in
our reunion. We fully acknowledge that you had a full—possibly
a fuller—share than we in the great achievements of the war. We
claim only this for the Seventieth Indiana—that we went into the
service with the full purpose to respond to every order [cries of
"That's so!"], and that we never evaded a fight or turned our backs
to the enemy. [Applause.] We are not here to exalt ourselves,
but I cannot omit to say that a purer, truer self-consecration to
the flag and country was never offered than by you and your dead
comrades who, in 1862, mustered for the defence of the Union.
[Applause.]
It was not in the heyday of success, it was not under the impression
that sixty days would end the war, that you were mustered.
It was when the clouds hung low and disasters were thick. Buell
was returning from the Tennessee, Kirby Smith coming through
Cumberland Gap, and McClellan had been defeated on the Peninsula.
It seemed as if the frown of God was on our cause. It was
then, in that hour of stress, that you pledged your hearts and lives
to the country [applause], in the sober realization that the war was[118]a desperate one, in which thousands were to die. We are glad that
God has spared us to see the magnificent development and increase
in strength and honor which has come to us as a Nation, and in
the glory that has been woven into the flag we love. [Great
applause.] We are glad that with most of us the struggle in life
has not left us defeat, if it has not crowned us with the highest
successes. We are veterans and yet citizens, pledged, each according
to his own conscience and thought, to do that which will best
promote the glory of our country and best conserve and set in our
public measures those patriotic thoughts and purposes that took us
into the war. [Applause.] It is my wish to-day that every relation
I occupy to the public or to a political party might be absolutely
forgotten [cries of "Good! good!"], and that I might for
this day, among these comrades, be thought of only as a comrade—your
old Colonel. [Great applause.]
Nothing has given me more pleasure on this occasion than to
notice, as I passed through your streets, so beautifully and so tastefully
decorated, that the poles that have been reared by the great
parties were intertwined [applause]—and now I remind myself
that I am not the orator of this occasion [cries of "Go on!"], but its
presiding officer. The right discharge of that duty forbids much
talking.
Comrades of the Seventieth Indiana, comrades of all these associated
regiments, I am glad to meet you. Nothing shall sever that
bond, I hope. Nothing that I shall ever say, nothing that I shall
ever do, will weaken it. And now, if you will permit me again
to acknowledge the generous hospitality of this community, and
in your behalf to return them our most sincere thanks, I will close
these remarks and proceed with the programme which has been
provided.
General Harrison was unanimously re-elected President
of the Association, Colonel Samuel Merrill Vice-President,
M. G. McLean Secretary, Major James L. Mitchell
Treasurer.
When the motion was put by one of the veterans on the
adoption of the report re-electing General Harrison to the
presidency of the Association, the veterans answered with
a "Yea" that brought cheer upon cheer from the crowd.
General Harrison, visibly affected, simply said: "I
feel myself crowned again to-day by this evidence of com[119]radeship
of the old soldiers of the Seventieth Indiana."
[Cheers.]
On his return from Clayton, General Harrison was
visited at his residence by fifty veterans of Potter Post,
G. A. R., Sycamore, Ill.,en routehome from the Columbus
encampment. They were introduced by General E. F.
Dutton, colonel of the One Hundred and Fifth Illinois Infantry,
and commander of the Second Brigade, Third Division
of the Twentieth Army Corps.
Alltrains arriving from the East this day brought large
delegations of homeward-bound veterans from the Columbus,
Ohio, encampment. The first to arrive was one
hundred veterans of Ransom Post, St. Louis—General Sherman's
Post—who were introduced by Col. Murphy. General
Harrison, responding to their greeting, said:
Comrades—I esteem it a pleasure to be able to associate with you
by the use of that form of address. I know of no human organization
that can give a better reason for its existence than the Grand
Army of the Republic. [Cries of "Good!"] It needs no argument
to justify it; it stands unassailable, and admits of no criticism
from any quarter. Its members have rendered that service to
their country in war, and they maintain now, in peace, that honorable,
courageous citizenship that entitles them to every patriot's
respect. I thank you for this visit, and will be glad if you will
now allow me to welcome you to my home.
In the afternoon the streets of Indianapolis were overflowing
with marching veterans from Illinois, Minnesota,
Missouri, Wisconsin, and Kansas, headed by the National
Drum Corps of Minneapolis, and commanded by Department
Commander Col. James A. Sexton, of Chicago, and a
brilliant staff. The great column passed through the city
out to the Harrison residence. Conspicuous at the head of
the line marched the distinguished Governor of Wiscon[120]sin,
General Jere M. Rusk, surrounded by his staff of
seventeen crippled veterans, among whom were Capt. E.
G. Fimme, Secretary of State of Wisconsin; Col. H. B.
Harshaw, State Treasurer; C. E. Estabrook, Attorney-General;
Philip Cheek, Insurance Commissioner; Col. H.
P. Fischer, Maj. J. R. Curran, Maj. F. L. Phillips, Maj.
F. H. Conse; Captains W. W. Jones, H. W. Lovejoy, and
W. H. McFarland. Eighty members of the Woman's
Relief Corps accompanied the veterans, and were given
positions of honor at the reception. When General Harrison
appeared he was tendered an ovation. Governor Rusk
said: "Comrades—I consider it both an honor and a pleasure
in introducing to you the President of the United
States for the next eight years—General Benjamin Harrison."
[Cheers.]
Governor Rusk, Comrades of the Grand Army, and Ladies—I did
not suppose that the Constitution of our country would be subjected
to so serious a fracture by the executive of one of our great
States. [Laughter.] Four years is the constitutional term of the
President. [Laughter.] I am glad to see you; I return your friendly
greetings most heartily. Your association is a most worthy one.
As I said to some comrades who visited me this morning, it has
the best reason for its existence of any human organization that I
know of. [Applause.] I am glad to know that your recent encampment
at Columbus was so largely attended, and was in all its
circumstances so magnificent a success. The National Encampment
of the G. A. R. is an honor to any city. The proudest may
well array itself in its best attire to welcome the Union veterans
of the late war. In these magnificent gatherings, so impressive in
numbers and so much more impressive in the associations they
revive, there is a great teaching force. If it is worth while to build
monuments to heroism and patriotic sacrifice that may stand as
dumb yet eloquent instructors of the generation that is to come, so
it is worth while that these survivors of the war assemble in their
national encampments and march once more, unarmed, through
the streets of our cities, whose peace and prosperity they have
secured. [Applause.]
Every man and every woman should do them honor. We have a
body of citizen soldiers instructed in tactics and strategy and ac[121]customed
to the points of war that make this Nation very strong
and formidable. I well remember that even in the second year of
the war instructors in tactics were rare in our own camps. They
are very numerous now. [Laughter.] Yet, while this Nation was
never so strong in a great instructed, trained body of veteran
soldiers, I think it was never more strongly smitten with the love
of peace. The man that would rather fight than eat has not survived
the last war. [Laughter.] He was laid away in an early
grave or enrolled on the list of deserters. But he would be mistaken
who supposes that all the hardships of the war—its cruel, hard
memories—would begin to frighten those veterans from the front
if the flag was again assailed or the national security or dignity
imperilled. [Applause and cries of "You are right!"] The war
was also an educator in political economy.
These veterans, who saw how the poverty of the South in the
development of her manufacturing interests paralyzed the skill of
her soldiers and the generalship of her captains, have learned to
esteem and value our diversified manufacturing interests. [Applause.]
You know that woollen mills and flocks would have been
more valuable to the Confederacy than battalions; that foundries
and arsenals and skilled mechanical labor was the great lack of the
Confederacy. You have learned that lesson so well that you will
not wish our rescued country, by any fatal free-trade policy, to be
brought to a like condition. [Applause and cries of "Good!
good!"] And now, gentlemen, I had a stipulation that I was not
to speak at all. [Laughter.] You will surely allow me now to
stop this formal address, and to welcome my comrades to our home.
[Applause.]
General Harrisonheld three receptions this date.
The first was tendered the Scott Rifles of Kansas City, all
members of the G. A. R.,en routehome from the Columbus
encampment. They wore the regulation blue uniform
and carried muskets. Captain Brant introduced his company,
stating that in bringing their arms with them "they
did not intend to do General Harrison any violence." The
General responded:
Captain and Comrades—I did not need to be assured that comrades
of the Grand Army, whether bearing arms or not, brought me no[122]peril. No loyal and orderly citizen will mistrust their friendliness.
The people of Indiana will not ask that you procure any permit or
give bond to keep the peace before passing through this loyal State
with arms in your hands.
I am especially complimented by the visit of this organized company
of the Missouri militia, composed wholly of Union veterans.
It gives evidence that those who served in the Civil War are still
watchful of the honor and safety of our country and its flag; that
our Government may rest with security upon the defence which
our citizen-soldiers offer.
And now, without alluding at all to any topic of partisan interest,
I bid you welcome, and will be pleased to have a personal
introduction to each of you, if that is your pleasure.
The second reception was extended to a delegation of
twelve hundred workingmen from New Albany, Floyd
County, organized into political clubs, among whose leaders
were Walter B. Godfrey, M. Y. Mallory, Geo. B. Cardwell,
M. M. Hurley, W. A. Maynor, Andrew Fite, Chas. R.
Clarke, J. W. Edmonson, L. L. Pierce, Horace Brown, N.
D. Morris, T. W. Armstrong, D. C. Anthony, John Hahn,
R. E. Burke, Albert Hopkins, F. D. Connor, Frank Norton,
M. McDonald, M. H. Sparks, W. H. Russell, J. N. Peyton,
Daniel Prosser, Geo. Roberts, and G. H. Pennington. A
band of G. A. R. veterans from far-off Texas happened
to be present at the reception, among them Col. J. C. De
Gress, Wm. Long, John Herman, S. C. Slade, W. H. Nye,
W. H. Tuttle, Geo. A. Knight, and Dr. S. McKay. James
A. Atkinson, a glassblower of the De Pauw works at New
Albany, delivered an able address on behalf of the visitors.
General Harrison responded as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—There is something very distinctive, very
interesting, and very instructive in this large delegation of workingmen
from the city of New Albany. Your fellow-workman
and spokesman has so eloquently presented that particular issue
upon which you have the greatest interest that I can add nothing
to the force or conclusiveness of his argument. He has said that
the interests of the workingmen were especially involved in the
pending political contest. I think that is conceded even by our
political opponents. I do not think there is a man so dull or so[123]unfair as to deny that the reduction of our tariff rates so as to
destroy the principle of protection now embodied in our laws will
have an influence on your wages and on the production of your
mills and factories. If this be true, then your interest in the question
is apparent. You will want to know whether the influence
of the proposed reduction of rates is to be beneficial or hurtful;
whether the effect will be to stimulate or diminish production;
whether it will be to maintain or increase the rate of wages you
are now receiving, or to reduce them. As you shall settle these
questions, so will you vote in November. [Applause.]
No man can doubt that a reduction of duties will stimulate the
importation of foreign merchandise. None of these plate-glass
workers can doubt that a reduction of the duty upon plate-glass
will increase the importation of French plate-glass.
None of these workers in your woollen mills can doubt that the
reduction of the duty upon the product of their mills will increase
the importation of foreign woollen goods.
And, if that is true, is it not also clear that this increased importation
of foreign-made goods means some idle workingmen in
your mills? The party that favors such discriminating duties as
will develop American production and secure the largest amount
of work for our American shops is the party whose policy will promote
your interests. [Applause and cries of "Hit him again!"]
I have heard it said by some leaders of Democratic thought that
the reduction proposed by the Mills bill, and the further reduction
which some of them are candid enough to admit they contemplate,
will stimulate American production by opening foreign markets
and that the interests of our Indiana manufacturing establishments
would thus be promoted. But those who advance this argument
also say that it will not do to progress too rapidly in the direction
of free trade—that we must go slowly, because our protected industries
cannot stand too rapid an advance; it would not be safe.
[Laughter.] Now, my countrymen, if this plan of revenue reform
is to be promotive of our manufacturing interests, why go slowly?
Why not open the gates wide and let us have the promised good
all at once? [Laughter and applause.]
Is it that these philosophers think the cup of prosperity will be
so sweet and full that our laboring people cannot be allowed to
drink it at one draught? [Applause and cries of "Good! good!"]
No, my countrymen, this statement implies what these gentlemen
know to be true—that the effect of the proposed legislation is
diminished production and diminished wages, and they desire that
you shall have an opportunity to get used to it. [Applause.] But[124]I cannot press this discussion further. I want to thank you for
the cordial things you have said to me by him who has spoken for
you. I trust, and have always trusted, the intelligence and conscience
of our working people. [Applause.]
They will inevitably find out the truth, and when they find it
they will justify it. Therefore, there are many things that have
been said to which I have not and shall not allude while this contest
is on. They are with you: the truth is accessible to you, and
you will find it. Now, thanking you most heartily for the personal
respect you have evidenced, and congratulating you upon your
intelligent devotion to that great American system which has
spread a sky of hope above you and your children, I bid you good-by.
[Cheers.]
The crowning event of the day was the reception of
several hundred members of the Irish-American Republican
Club of Cook County and Chicago. The visitors were
met by the Home Irish-American Protection Club, Patrick
A. Ward, President, assisted by the Columbia Club and
several thousand citizens. Their demonstration was one
of the most notable of the campaign. This club was the
first political organization in the country to congratulate
General Harrison on his nomination. The evening of
June 25 the club met and adopted the following, which
was telegraphed the General:
The Irish-American Republican Club of Cook County, Illinois,
congratulate you and the country upon your nomination. We
greet the gallant soldier and true American, and rejoice with our
fellow-citizens of every nationality in the glad assurance your
nomination gives that the industries of our country will be protected
and the honor of the Nation maintained with the same
courage and devotion that distinguished you on the bloody field of
Resaca. We salute the next President of the Republic.
Leaders of the delegation were Hon. John F. Finerty,
F. J. Gleason, Dennis Ward, Richard Powers, and Messrs.
Russell and O'Morey. Thomas F. Byron, of Lowell,
Mass., founder of the Land League in America, accompanied
the club. In the absence of President Brady their[125]spokesman was Mr. John F. Beggs. General Harrison
delivered one of his happiest responses. He said:
Mr. Beggs and my Friends of the Irish-American Republican Club
of Cook County, Ill.—You were Irishmen, you are Americans
[cheers]—Irish-Americans [continued cheering], and though you
have given the consecrated loyalty of your honest hearts to the
starry flag and your adopted country, you have not and you ought
not to forget to love and venerate the land of your nativity.
[Great applause.] If you could forget Ireland, if you could be unmoved
by her minstrelsy, untouched by the appeals of her splendid
oratory, unsympathetic with her heroes and martyrs, I should fear
that the bonds of your new citizenship would have no power over
hearts so cold and consciences so dead. [Cheers.]
What if a sprig of green were found upon the bloody jacket of a
Union soldier who lay dead on Missionary Ridge? The flag he
died for was his flag and the green was only a memory and an
inspiration.
We, native or Irish born, join with the Republican convention
in the hope that the cause of Irish home rule, progressing under
the leadership of Gladstone and Parnell [cheers] upon peaceful
and lawful lines, may yet secure for Ireland that which as Americans
we so much value—local home rule. [Cheering.] I am sure
that you who have, in your own persons or in your worthy representatives,
given such convincing evidence of your devotion to the
American Constitution and flag and to American institutions will
not falter in this great civil contest which your spokesman has so
fittingly described. Who, if not Irish-Americans versed in the
sad story of the commercial ruin of the island they love, should be
instructed in the beneficent influence of a protective tariff? [Continuous
cheering.] Who, if not Irish-Americans should be able
to appreciate the friendly influences of the protective system upon
their individual and upon their home life? Which of you has not
realized that not the lot of man only, but the lot of woman, has
been made softer and easier under its influence? [Applause and
"Hear! hear!"] Contrast the American mother and wife, burdened
only with the cares of motherhood and of the household, with the
condition of women in many of the countries of the Old World,
where she is loaded also with the drudgery of toil in the field.
[Applause.]
I know that none more than Irishmen, who are so characterized
by their deference for women, and whose women have so fitly
illustrated that which is pure in female character, will value this[126]illustration of the good effects of our American system upon the
home life. [Continued applause.]
There are nations across the sea who are hungry for the American
market. They are waiting with eager expectation for the
adoption of a free-trade policy by the United States. [Cries of
"That will never happen!"] The English manufacturer is persuaded
that an increased market for English goods in America is
good for him, but I think it will be impossible to persuade the
American producer and the American workman that it is good for
them. [Applause and cries of "That's right!"] I believe that social
order, that national prosperity, are bound up in the preservation
of our existing policy. [Loud cheering and cries of "You are
right!"] I do not believe that a republic can live and prosper
whose wage-earners do not receive enough to make life comfortable,
who do not have some upward avenues of hope open before
them. When the wage-earners of the land lose hope, when the star
goes out, social order is impossible, and after that anarchy or the
Czar. [Cheering.]
I gratefully acknowledge the compliment of your call, and exceedingly
regret that the storm without made it impossible for me to
receive you at my house. [Applause and cries of "Thanks!
thanks!"] I will now be glad to take each member of your club
by the hand. [Continued cheering.]
General Harrison'scallers to-day numbered about
five thousand, over half of whom came from Vermilion
County, Illinois, led by a company of young ladies, in
uniform, from the town of Sidell. Hon. Samuel Stansbury
of Danville was Marshal of the delegation, aided by E. C.
Boudinot, D. G. Moore, Chas. A. Allen, J. G. Thompson,
and W. C. Cowan. Col. W. R. Jewell, editor DanvilleDaily News, was spokesman. General Harrison, in response,
said:
My Illinois Friends—The people of your State were very early in
giving evidence to our people and to me that they are deeply and
generally interested in this campaign. I welcome you and accept
your coming as evidence that the early interest you manifested has
suffered no abatement. It was not an impulse that stirred you[127],
but a deep conviction that matters of great and lasting consequence
to your country are involved in this campaign. Your representative
in Congress, Hon. Joseph Cannon, is well known in Indiana.
[Applause.] I have known him for many years; have observed
his conduct in the National Congress, and always with admiration.
He is a fearless, aggressive, honest Republican leader. [Applause
and cries of "Good! good!"] He is worthy of the favor and confidence
you have shown him.
If some one were to ask to-day, "What is the matter with the
United States?" [laughter and cries of "She's all right!"] I am
sure we would hear some Democratic friend respond, "Its people
are oppressed and impoverished by tariff taxation." [Laughter.]
Ordinarily our people can be trusted to know when they are taxed;
but this Democratic friend will tell us that the tariff tax is so insidious
that our people pay it without knowing it. That is a very
unhappy condition, indeed. But his difficulties are not all surmounted
when he has convinced his hearers that a customs duty is
a tax, for history does not run well with his statement that our
people have been impoverished by our tariff system. Another
answer to your question will be perhaps that there is now a great
surplus in the Treasury—he will probably not state the figures,
for there seems to be a painful uncertainty about that. I have
sometimes thought that this surplus was held chiefly to be talked
about. The laws provide a use for it that would speedily place it
in circulation. If a business man finds an accumulated surplus
that he does not need in his business, that stands as a bank balance
and draws no interest, and if he has notes outside to mature in the
future he will make a ready choice between leaving his balance in
the bank and using it to take up his obligations. [Applause.]
But in our national finances the other choice has been made, and
this surplus remains in the national bank without interest, while
our bonds, which, under the law, might be retired by the use of
it, continue to draw interest.
You have a great agricultural State. Its prairies offer the most
tempting invitation to the settler. I have heard it suggested that
one reason why you have outstripped Indiana in population was
because the men who were afraid of the "deadening" passed over us
to seek your treeless plains. [Applause.] But you have not been
contented to be only an agricultural community. You have developed
your manufactures and mechanical industries until now,
if my recollection is not at fault, for every two persons engaged in
agricultural labor you have one engaged in manufacturing, in the
mechanical arts and mining. It is this subdivision of labor, these[128]diversified industries, that make Illinois take rank so near the head
among the States. By this home interchange of the products of the
farm and shop, made possible by our protective system, Illinois has
been able to attain her proud position in the union of the States.
Shall we continue a policy that has wrought so marvellously since
the war in the development of all those States that have given
hospitable access to manufacturing capital and to the brawn and
skill of the workingman? [Cries of "Good! good!" and cheers.]
From Louisville, Ky., came 1,000 enthusiastic visitors,
led by the Hon. Wm. E. Riley, Hon. R. R. Glover,
Hon. Albert Scott, W. W. Huffman, W. M. Collins, M.
E. Malone, and J. J. Jonson. A. E. Willson, of Louisville,
delivered a stirring address on behalf of the Republicans
of Kentucky, to which General Harrison responded as
follows:
My Kentucky Friends—There have been larger delegations assembled
about this platform, but there has been none that has in a
higher degree attracted my interest or touched my heart. [Applause.]
It has been quite one thing to be a Republican in
Illinois and quite another to be a Republican in Kentucky.
[Applause.] Not the victors only in a good fight deserve a crown;
those who fight well and are beaten and fight again, as you
have done, deserve a crown, though victory never yet has perched
on your banner. [A voice, "It will perch there, though, don't you
forget it!"] Yes, it will come, for the bud of victory is always in
the truth. I will not treat you to-day to any statistics from the
census reports [laughter], nor enter the attractive field of the history
of your great State. I have believed that these visiting delegations
were always well advised as to the history and statistics of their
respective States. [Laughter.] If this trust has been misplaced in
other cases, certainly Kentuckians can be trusted to remember and
perhaps to tell all that is noble in the thrilling history of their great
State. [Great applause.] Your history is very full of romantic
and thrilling adventure and of instances of individual heroism.
Your people have always been proud, chivalric, and brave. In the
late war for the Union, spite of all distraction and defection,
Kentucky stood by the old flag. [Applause.] And now that the
war is over and its bitter memory is forgotten, there is not one,
I hope, in all your borders, who does not bless the outcome of that
great struggle. [Applause.] Surely there are none in Kentucky
who do not rejoice that the beautiful river is not a river of di[129]vision.
[Great applause.] And now what hinders that Kentucky
shall step forward in the great industrial rivalry between the
States? Is there not, as your spokesman has suggested, in the
early and thorough instruction which the people of Kentucky
received from the mouth of your matchless orator, Henry Clay
[applause], a power that shall yet and speedily bring back Kentucky
to the support of our protective system? [Applause.] Can
the old Whigs, who so reverently received from the lips of Clay
the gospel of protection, much longer support a revenue policy that
they know to be inimical to our national interests? If when Kentucky
was a slave State she found a protective tariff promoted the
prosperity of her people, what greater things will the same policy
not do for her as a free State? She has now opened her hospitable
doors to skilled labor; her coal and metals and hemp invite its
transforming touch. Why should she not speedily find great manufacturing
cities spring up in her beautiful valleys? Shall any old
prejudice spoil this hopeful vision? [Great applause.] I remember
that Kentucky agitated for seven years and held nine conventions
before she secured a separate statehood. May I not appeal to the
children of those brave settlers who, when but few in number,
composed of distant and feeble settlements, were received into the
Union of States, to show their chivalry and love of justice by uniting
with us in the demand that Dakota and Washington shall be
admitted? [Applause.] Does not your own story shame those who
represent you in the halls of Congress and who bar the door against
communities whose numbers and resources so vastly outreach what
you possessed when you were admitted to statehood? We look
hopefully to Kentucky. The State of Henry Clay and Abraham
Lincoln [enthusiastic cheering] cannot be much longer forgetful
[cries of "No! no!"] of the teachings of those great leaders of
thought.
I believe that Kentucky will place herself soon upon the side of
the truth upon these great questions. [A voice, "We believe it!"
Another voice, "We will keep them out of Indiana, anyhow!"
Great cheering.] Thank you. There is no better way that I
know of to keep one detachment of an army from re-enforcing
another than by giving that detachment all it can do in its own
field. [Applause and laughter.]
The last visitors of the day were 200 delegates, in attendance
upon the sessions of the National Association of Union
Ex-Prisoners of War. They were led by Gen. W. H.
Powell, of Belleville, Iowa, President of the Association;[130]E. H. Williams, of Indianapolis, Vice-President; Chaplain
C. C. McCabe, New York City; Historian Frank E.
Moran, Philadelphia; President-elect Thomas H. McKee
and Secretary L. P. Williams, Washington, D. C.; S. N.
Long, of New Jersey, and J. W. Green, of Ohio. Every one
of the visiting veterans had undergone imprisonment at
Andersonville, Libby, or some less noted Southern prison.
Conspicuous among them was Gen. B. F. Kelly, of Virginia,
the first Union officer wounded in the rebellion, and
J. A. January, of Illinois, who amputated both his own
feet while in Libby Prison, to prevent gangrene spreading.
General Powell, in a brief address, touchingly referred to
the perils and hardships they had survived. General
Harrison was greatly affected by the scene—the veterans
grouped closely about him in his own house. He paused
a moment in silence, then in a low, sympathetic voice,
said:
General Powell and Comrades—I am always touched when I meet
either with those who stood near about me in the service, or those
who shared the general comradeship of the war. It seems to me
that the wild exhilaration which in the earlier reunions we often
saw is very much sobered as we come together now. I have
realized in meeting with my own regiment this fall that it was
a time when one felt the touches of the pathetic. And yet there
was a glow of satisfaction in being together again and in thinking
of what was and what is. The annals of the war fail to furnish
a sadder story than that of the host of Union veterans who suffered
war's greatest hardship—captivity. The story of the rebel prison
pens was one of grim horror. In the field our armies, always
brave, were generally always chivalric and humane. But the treatment
of the captured Union soldiers surpassed in fiendish cruelty
the best achievements of the savage. It is the black spot without
any lining of silver or any touch of human nature. But you have
cause for congratulation that you have been spared to the glory and
prosperity that your services and sufferings have brought to the
Nation. The most vivid imagination has drawn no picture of the
full meaning to our people and to the world of these simple
words—we saved the Union, perpetuated free government, and
abolished slavery. [Prolonged applause.]
Fivedelegations paid their respects to the Republican
nominee this day. The first was sixty veterans of the
Seventh Indiana Cavalry—General J. P. Shanks' old
regiment. Colonel Lewis Reeves, of Mentone, Ind., made
the address on behalf of the veterans, to which General
Harrison responded:
Comrades—I recall the services of your gallant regiment. I
welcome you as men who had as honorable a part in the great
achievements of the Union army as any in the Civil War. I congratulate
you that you have been spared to see the fruits of your
labors and sacrifices. In these meetings the thought of those who
did not live to see the end of the bloody struggle is always present.
Their honor also is in our keeping. I am glad to know that at
last in our State a shaft is being lifted to the honor of the Indiana
soldier. It will not only keep alive a worthy memory, but it will
instil patriotism into our children. I thank you for this friendly
visit. [Cheers.]
From Illinois came two large delegations—that from
Iroquois County numbering 1,000, commanded by Chief
Marshal Slattery, of Onargo. A Tippecanoe club of veterans
headed their column, led by Chairman Owen,
followed by the John A. Logan Club, commanded by Capt.
A. L. Whitehall. Prominent in the delegation were State
Senator Secrist, Judge S. G. Bovie, B. F. Price, J. F. Ireland,
A. Powell, James Woodworth, G. B. Joiner, W. M.
Coney, Dr. J. H. Gillam, Dr. Scull, editors E. A. Nye and
M. S. Taliaferro, of Watseka; also W. H. Howe, of Braidwood,
father of the "Drummer Boy of Vicksburg." Robert
Meredith, of Onargo, spoke on behalf of the colored members
of the delegation, and Capt. R. W. Hilscher, of Watseka,
for the veterans. La Porte County, Ind., was represented
by a large delegation, the Michigan City detachment
commanded by Major Biddle, Uriah Culbert, and[132]Major Wood. The Laporte City clubs were led by Wm. C.
Weir, Marshal of the delegation. Other prominent members
were S. M. Closser, W. C. Miller, Frank E. Osborn,
J. N. Whitehead, M. L. Bramhall, Nelson Larzen, Samuel
Bagley, Brook Travis, Wm. Hastings, S. A. Rose,
Swan Peterson, and editor Sonneborn. The presentation
address was made by Col. J. W. Crumpacker, of
Laporte.
To these several addresses General Harrison responded:
My Illinois and my Indiana Friends—If I needed any stimulus
to duty, or to have my impression of the dignity and responsibility
of representative office increased, I should find it in such assemblies
as these and in the kind and thoughtful words which have been
addressed to me in your behalf. The American people under our
system of government have their public interests in their own keeping.
All laws and proclamations may be revoked or repealed by
them. They will be called on in November to mark out the revenue
policy for our Government by choosing public officers pledged to the
principles which a majority of our people approve. Fortunately you
have now an issue very clearly drawn and very easy to be understood.
In previous campaigns we have not quite known where our
adversaries stood. Now we do know. Our Democratic friends
say a protective tariff is robbery. You see this written at the
head of campaign tracts circulated by their committees. You
hear it said in the public speeches of their leaders. You have
not once, I think, in the campaign heard any Democratic speaker
admit that even a low protective tariff was desirable. Those
who, like Mr. Randall, have in former campaigns been used to
allay the apprehension of our working people by talking protection
have been silenced. On the other hand, the Republican
party declares by its platform and by its speakers that a protective
tariff is wise and necessary. There is the issue. Make
your own choice. If you approve by your votes the doctrine that
a protective tariff is public robbery, you will expect your representatives
to stop this public robbery, and if they are faithful
they will do it; not seven per cent. of it, but all of it. [Applause
and cries of "That's it!"] So that I beg you all to recollect that
you will vote this fall for or against the principle of protection.
You are invited to a feast of cheapness. You are promised foreign-made
goods at very low prices, and domestic competing goods, if
any are made, at the same low rates. But do not forget that the[133]spectre of low wages will also attend the feast. [Applause and
cries of "That's so!"] Inevitably, as certain as the night follows
the day, the adoption of this policy means lower wages. Choose,
then, and do not forget that this cheapening process may be pushed
so far as to involve the cheapening of human life and the loss of
human happiness. [Applause.]
And now a word about the surplus in the Treasury. Our Democratic
friends did not know what else to do with it, and so they
have deposited it in certain national banks. The Government gets
no interest upon it, but it is loaned out by the banks to our citizens
at interest. Our income is more than our current expenses.
There is no authority for the Secretary of the Treasury to lend the
money, and so only three methods of dealing with it presented
themselves, under the law—first, to lock it up in the Treasury
vaults; second, to deposit it in the banks without interest; or, third,
to use it in the purchase of bonds not yet due. The objection to
the first method was that the withdrawal of so large a sum might
result in a monetary stringency; the second obviated this objection
by allowing the banks to put the money in circulation; but
neither method resulted in any advantage to the Government.
As to it the money was dead; only the banks received interest
for its use. By the third method the money would be returned to
the channels of trade and the Government would make the difference
between the premium paid for the bond and the interest that
the bonds would draw if left outstanding until they matured. If
a Government bond at the market premium is a good investment
for a capitalist who is free to use his money as he pleases, can it
be bad finance for the Government, having money that it cannot
use in any other way, to use it in buying up its bonds? [Great
applause.] It is not whether we will purposely raise money to
buy our bonds at a premium—no one would advise that—but will
we so use a surplus that we have on hand and cannot lawfully pay
out in any other way? Do our Democratic friends propose to give
the banks the free use of it until our bonds mature, or do they propose
to reduce our annual income below our expenditure by a revision
of the tariff until this surplus is used, and then revise the tariff
again to restore the equilibriums? [Great applause.] I welcome
the presence to-day of these ladies of your households. We should
not forget that we have working-women in America. [Applause
and cries of "Good! good!"] None more than they are interested
in this policy of protection which we advocate. If want and hard
conditions come into the home, the women bear a full share.
[Applause.] And now I have been tempted to speak more at length[134]than I had intended. I thank you for this cordial manifestation
of your confidence and respect. [Cheers.]
The fourth delegation of the day came from Grundy
County, Illinois, headed by the Logan Club of Morris.
An enthusiastic member of this delegation was the venerable
Geo. P. Augustine, of Braceville, Ill., aged 77, who in
the summer of 1840 employed the boy "Jimmie" Garfield—afterward
President of the United States—to ride his
horses on the tow-path of the Ohio canal between Portsmouth
and Cleveland. Hon. P. C. Hayes, of Morris, was
spokesman for the delegation. General Harrison said:
General Hayes and my Illinois Friends—I regret that your arrival
was postponed so long as to make it impossible for you to meet
with the other friends from your State who, a little while ago,
assembled about the platform. I thank you for the kind feelings
that prompted you to come, and for the generous things General
Hayes has said in your behalf. There is little that I can say and
little that I can appropriately do to promote the success of the Republican
principles. A campaign that enlists the earnest and active
co-operation of the individual voters will have a safe issue. I am
glad to see in your presence an evidence that in your locality this
individual interest is felt. [Applause.] But popular assemblies,
public debate, and conventions are all an empty mockery unless,
when the debate is closed, the election is so conducted that every
elector shall have an equal and full influence in determining the
result. That is our compact of government. [Cheers.] I thank
you again for your great kindness, and it will now give me pleasure
to accede to the suggestion of General Hayes and take each of you
by the hand.
The fifth and last delegation of the day reached the
Harrison residence in the evening, and comprised 200
survivors of the Second and Ninth Indiana Cavalry
and the Twenty-sixth Indiana Infantry. Col. John A.
Bridgland, the old commander of the Second Cavalry,
spoke on behalf of the veterans. General Harrison replied:
Colonel Bridgland and Comrades—I am fast losing my faith in
men. [Laughter.] This morning a representative or two of this[135]regiment called upon me and made an arrangement that I should
receive you at this hour. It was expressly stipulated—though I
took no security [laughter]—that there should be no speech-making
at all. Now I find myself formally introduced to you and under
the necessity of talking to you. [Laughter.] I am under so much
stress in this way, from day to day, that I am really getting to be
a little timid when I see a corporal's guard together anywhere, for
fear they will want a speech. [Laughter.] And even at home,
when I sit down at the table with my family, I have some apprehensions
lest some one may propose a toast and insist that I shall
respond. [Laughter.]
I remember that the Second Indiana Cavalry was the first full
cavalry regiment I ever saw. I saw it marching through Washington
Street from the windows of my law office; and as I watched
the long line drawing itself through the street, it seemed to me
the call for troops might stop; that there were certainly enough
men and horses there to put down the rebellion. [Laughter.]
It is clear I did not rightly measure the capacities of a cavalry
regiment, or the dimensions of the rebellion. [Laughter.] I am
glad to see you here to-day. You come as soldiers, and I greet
you as comrades. I will not allude to political topics, on which
any of us might differ. [A voice, "There ain't any differences!"]
Of course, the members of the Ninth Cavalry and the
Twenty-sixth Infantry must understand I am speaking to all my
comrades. [A voice, "The Twenty-sixth were waiting for the
cavalry to get out of the way!" Laughter.] Well, during the
war you were willing to wait, weren't you? [Hearty laughter.]
I was going to say that I had an express promise from Mr. Adams,
of the Twenty-sixth Indiana, there should be no speaking on the
occasion of your visit. [Laughter.] Perhaps his comrades of the
Twenty-sixth will say I had not sufficient reason for so thinking,
as we all know that he is given to joking. [Laughter.] I will be
pleased now to meet each of you personally.
OnSeptember 20 a distinguished delegation arrived from
Cincinnati, for the purpose of inviting General and Mrs.
Harrison to attend the Cincinnati Exposition. The committee,
representing the Board of Commissioners of the
Exposition, was headed by Chairman Goodale and President
Allison and wife, accompanied by Mayor Amor Smith
and wife, Comptroller E. P. Eshelby and wife, Hon. John
B. Peaslee, Mrs. and Miss Devereaux, C. H. Rockwell and
wife, and others.
In the evening 300 gentlemen, exhibiting implements
and agricultural machinery at the State Fair—then in
progress—called on General Harrison. John C. Wingate,
of Montgomery County, was their spokesman.
Responding to their greeting the General said:
My Friends—When I was asked yesterday whether it would be
agreeable to me to see about one hundred gentlemen who were here
in attendance upon the Indiana State Fair and connected with the
exhibit of machinery, I was assured their call would be of the most
informal character—that they would simply visit me at my home
and spend a few moments socially. [Laughter.] Until I heard
the music of your band and saw the torchlights, that was my understanding
of what was in store for me this evening. I am again
the victim of a misunderstanding. [Laughter and applause.]
Still, though my one hundred guests have been multiplied several
times, and though I find myself compelled to speak to you en masse
rather than individually, I am glad to see you. I thank you for
your visit, and for the cordial terms in which you have addressed
me. What your speaker has said as to the favorable condition of
our working people is true; and we are fortunate in the fact that
we do not need to depend for our evidence on statistics or the reports
of those who casually visit the countries of the Old World.
There is probably not a shop represented here that has not among
its workingmen those who have tried the conditions of life in the
old country, and are able to speak from personal experience. It
cannot be doubted that our American system of levying discriminating
duties upon competing foreign products has much to do
with the better condition of our working people. I welcome you[137]as representatives of one of the great industries of our country.
The demands of the farm have been met by the ingenuity of your
shops. The improvement in farm machinery within my own recollection
has been marvellous. The scythe and the cradle still held
control in the harvest field when I first went out to carry the noon
meal to the workmen. Afterward it sometimes fell to my lot
in the hay-field to drive one of the old-fashioned combination reapers
and mowers. It was a great advance over the scythe and
cradle, and yet it was heavy and clumsy—a very horse-killer.
[Laughter and applause.] When the drivers struck a stump
the horse had no power over the machine in either direction. Now
these machines have been so lightened and improved that they are
the perfection of mechanism. Your inventive genius has responded
to the necessities of the farm until that which was drudgery has
become light and easy. I thank you again for your call, and will
be glad to meet personally those strangers who are here. [Applause.]
Randolphand Jay counties, Indiana, contributed 3,000
visitors on September 21. At the head of the Randolph
column marched 200 members of the "Old Men's Tippecanoe
Club," of Winchester, led by Marshals J. B. Ross,
A. J. Stakebake, and Auditor Cranor. Other leaders in
the delegation were Mayor F. H. Bowen, Hon. Theo. Shockley,
Geo. Patchell, W. S. Ensign, Frank Parker, Samuel
Bell, Dr. G. Rynard, and Washington Smith, of Union
City; J. W. Macy, J. S. Engle, Reverdy Puckett, A. C.
Beeson, and John E. Markle, of Winchester.
The Jay County contingent was led by James A. Russell,
B. D. Halfhill, Isaac McKinney, J. W. Williams, Eli
Clark, J. C. Andrews, T. J. Cartwright, and Albert Martin.
L. C. Hauseman was spokesman for the Hoosiers.
Gen. Stone, of Randolph, spoke on behalf of the veterans.
From Dayton, Ohio, came 500 visitors, including 60
veterans of the campaign of '40, led by Secretary Edgar.
Marshal James Applegate, Mr. Eckley, Dr. J. A. Ronspert,
and W. R. Knaub were other leaders of the Ohio contin[138]gent.
Col. John G. Lowe was their speaker, and referred
to the fact that Gen. Harrison "had won his education
and Miss Caroline M. Scott, now his estimable wife, when
a resident of Ohio."
To these addresses the General, responding, said:
My Ohio and Indiana Friends—The magnitude and the cordiality
of this demonstration are very gratifying. That these representatives
of the State of my nativity, and these, my neighbors in this
State of my early adoption, should unite this morning in giving
this evidence of their respect and confidence is especially pleasing.
I do remember Ohio, the State of my birth and of my boyhood,
with affection and veneration. I take pride in her great history,
the illustrious men she furnished to lead our armies, and the army
of her brave boys who bore the knapsack and the gun for the Union.
I take pride in her pure and illustrious statesmen. Ohio was the
first of the Northwestern States to receive the western emigration
after the Revolutionary War. When that tide of patriotism which
had borne our country to freedom and had established our Constitution
threw upon the West many of the patriots whose fortunes had
been maimed or broken by their sacrifices in the Revolutionary
War, this pure stream, pouring over the Alleghanies, found its
first basin in the State of Ohio. [Cries of "Good! Good!"]
The waters of patriotism that had been distilled in the fires of the
Revolution fertilized her virgin fields. [Applause.] I do not forget,
however, that my manhood has all been spent in Indiana—that
all the struggle which is behind me in life has this for its field.
[Cheers.]
I brought to this hospitable State only that to which Col. Lowe
has alluded—an education and a good wife. [Great cheering.]
Whatever else I have, whatever else I have accomplished, for myself
and for my family or the public, has been under the favoring and
friendly auspices of these, my fellow-citizens of Indiana. [Applause.]
To them I owe more than I can repay. My Indiana
friends, you come from a county largely devoted to agriculture.
The invitation of Nature was so generous that your people have
generally accepted it. Guarded as your early settlers were, and as
those of Ohio were, by that sword of liberty which was placed at
your gates by the ordinance of 1787, stimulated, as you have been,
by the suggestions of that great ordinance in favor of morality and
education, you have, in your rural homes, one of the best communities
in the world. [Applause.] You do not forget, farmers though
you are, that 95 per cent. of the product of your farms is consumed[139]at home, and you are too wise to put that in peril in a greedy
search after foreign trade. [Great applause.] You will not sacrifice
these great industries that have created in our country a consuming
class for your products. [Cheers.] I do not think that
there is any doubt what tariff policy England would wish us to
adopt, and yet some say that England is trembling lest we should
adopt free trade here [laughter], and so rob her of other markets
that she now enjoys. [Laughter.] The story of our colonial days,
when England, with selfish and insatiate avarice, laid her repressive
hand upon our infant manufactories and attempted to suppress
them all, furnishes the first object-lesson she gave us. Another
was given when the life of this Nation—the child of England, as
she has been wont to call us, speaking the mother tongue, having
many institutions inherited from her—was imperilled. The offer
of free trade by the Confederacy so touched the commercial greed
of England that she forgot the ties of blood and went to the verge
of war with us to advance the cause of the rebel Government.
[Cheers.] But what England wants, or what any other country
wants, is not very important—certainly not conclusive. [Cheers.]
What is best for us and our people should be the decisive question.
[Cheers.] My Randolph County friends, there are State
questions that must take a strong hold upon the minds of people
like yours. The proposition to lift entirely out of the range and
control of partisan politics the great benevolent institutions of the
State is one that must commend itself to all your people. [Cheers.]
If all those friends who sympathize with us upon this question had
acted with us in 1886 we should then have accomplished this great
reform. [Applause.] And now, to these old gentlemen whose
judgment and large experience in life gives added value to their
kind words; to these young friends who, for the first time, take a
freeman's place in the line of battle to do duty for the right, I give
my kindly greetings and best wishes in return for theirs. [Cheers.]
Onthe afternoon of September 22 General Harrison was
visited by 600 Chicago "drummers," organized as the Republican
Commercial Travellers' Association of Chicago
and accompanied by the celebrated Second Regiment Band.
They were escorted to the Harrison residence by the Columbia
Club and 200 members of the Republican Commer[140]cial
Travellers' Escort Club of Indianapolis, George C.
Webster, President; Ernest Morris, Secretary.
The entire business community turned out to greet the
visitors as they marched through the city, performing
difficult evolutions, under the command of Chief Marshal
Vandever and his aids—C. S. Felton, P. H. Brockway, B.
F. Horton, Joseph Pomroy, W. H. Haskell, Geo. W. Bristol,
A. C. Boyd, Geo. H. Green, and Secretary H. A.
Morgan.
General Harrison's appearance was signalized by a remarkable
demonstration. Col. H. H. Rude delivered the
address on behalf of his associates.
In response General Harrison made one of his best
speeches. He said:
Sir, and Gentlemen of the Republican Commercial Travellers' Association
of Chicago—I bid you welcome to my home. I give you
my most ardent thanks for this cordial evidence of your interest in
those great principles of government which are advocated by the
Republican party, whose candidate I am. I am not unfamiliar
with the value, efficiency, and intelligence of the commercial travellers
of our country. [Cheers.] The contribution you make to
the success of the business communities with which you are identified
is large and indispensable. I do not doubt that one of the
strongest props of Chicago's commercial greatness would be destroyed
if you were withdrawn from the commercial forces of that
great city. [Cheers.] The growth and development of Chicago
has been one of the most marvellous incidents in the story of American
progress. It is gratifying to know that your interest is enlisted
in this political campaign. It is very creditable to you that
in the rush of the busy industries and pushing trade of your city
you have not forgotten that you are American citizens and that you
owe service, not to commerce only, but to your country. [Great
cheering.] It is gratifying to be assured that you propose to bring
your influence into the great civil contest which is now engaging
the interest of our people. The intelligence and energy which you
give to your commercial pursuits will be a most valuable contribution
to our cause. [Cheers.] The power of such a body of men is
very great.
I want now to introduce to you for a moment another speaker—an
Englishman. Within the last year I have been reading, wholly[141]without any view to politics, the story of our diplomatic relations
with England during the Civil War. The motive that most strongly
influenced the English mind in its sympathy with the South was the
expectancy of free trade with the Confederacy [cries of "That's
right!"], and among the most influential publications intended to
urge English recognition and aid to the Confederates was a book
entitled "The American Union," by James Spence. It was published
in 1862, and ran through several editions. Speaking of the
South he said:
"No part of the world can be found more admirably placed for
exchanging with this country the products of industry to mutual
advantage than the Southern States of the Union. Producing in
abundance the material we chiefly require, their climate and the
habits of the people indispose them to manufactures, and leave to
be purchased precisely the commodities we have to sell. They
have neither the means nor the desire to enter into rivalry with us.
Commercially they offer more than the capabilities of another India
within a fortnight's distance from our shores. The capacity of a
Southern trade when free from restrictions may be estimated most
correctly by comparison. The condition of those States resembles
that of Australia, both non-manufacturing countries, with the command
of ample productions to offer in exchange for the imports
they require."
The author proceeds to show that at the time England's exports to
our country were only thirteen shillings per capita of our population,
while the exports to Australia were ten pounds sterling per
capita. Let me now read you what is said of the Northern States:
"The people of the North, whether manufacturers or ship-owners,
regard us as rivals and competitors, to be held back and
cramped by all possible means. [Applause and cries of "That's it!"]
They possess the same elements as ourselves—coal, metals, ships,
an aptitude for machinery, energy and industry—while the early
obstacles of deficient capital and scanty labor are rapidly disappearing.
[Applause and a voice, "Exactly!"]
"For many years they have competed with us in some manufactures
in foreign markets, and their peculiar skill in the contrivance
of labor-saving machinery daily increases the number of articles
they produce cheaper than ourselves. [Loud cheering and a
voice, "We'll knock them out again!"]
"Thus, to one part of the world our exports are at the rate of ten
pounds sterling per head, while those to the Union amount to but
thirteen shillings per head."
I have read these extracts because they seemed to me very suggestive
and very instructive. The South offered free trade to Europe
in exchange for an expected recognition of their independence by
England and France. [Cries of "You are right!"] The offer was
very attractive and persuasive to the ruling classes of England.
They took Confederate bonds and sent out armed cruisers to prey[142]upon our commerce. They dallied with Southern agents, fed them
with delusive hopes, and thus encouraged the South to protract a
hopeless struggle. They walked to the very edge of open war with
the United States, forgetful of all the friendly ties that had bound
us as nations, and all this to satisfy a commercial greed. We may
learn from this how high a price England then set upon free trade
with a part only of the States. [A voice, "We remember it!"]
But now the Union has been saved and restored. Men of both
armies and of all the States rejoice that England's hope of a commercial
dependency on our Southern coast was disappointed. The
South is under no stress to purchase foreign help by trade concessions.
She will now open her hospitable doors to manufacturing,
capital, and skilled labor.
It is not now true that either climate or the habits of her people
indispose them to manufactures. Of the Virginias, North Carolina,
Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, and Missouri, it may be now
said, as Mr. Spence said of the more northern States, "They possess
the same elements as ourselves [England]—coal, metals, ships, an
aptitude for machinery, energy, and industry—while the early obstacles
of deficient capital and scanty labor are rapidly disappearing."
And I am sure there is a "New South"—shackled as it is by traditions
and prejudices—that is girding itself to take part in great industrial
rivalry with England, which Mr. Spence so much deprecates.
These great States will no longer allow either Old England
or New England to spin and weave their cotton, but will build
mills in the very fields where the great staple is gathered. [Applause.]
They will no longer leave Pennsylvania without an active
rival in the production of iron. They surely will not, if they
are at all mindful of their great need and their great opportunity,
unite in this crusade against our protected industries.
Our interests no longer run upon sectional lines, and it cannot
be good for any part of our country that Mr. Spence's vision of
English trade with us should be realized. [Cries of "Never! Never!"]
Commerce between the States is working mightily, if
silently, to efface all lingering estrangements between our people,
and the appeal for the perpetuation of the American system of protection
will, I am sure, soon find an answering response among the
people of all the States. [Loud cheering.]
I thank you again for this beautiful and cordial demonstration,
and will now be glad to meet you personally.
Thethird delegation from Wabash County during the
campaign arrived on September 25, a thousand strong,
headed by Hon. Jesse Arnold, Col. Homan Depew, Thomas
Black, W. D. Caldwell, Obed Way, Thomas McNamee,
Rob't Thompson, Wm. Alexander, Robert Wilson, Andrew
Egnew, C. S. Haas, W. W. Stewart, W. H. Bent, Robert
Stewart, and W. D. Gachenour. Their spokesman was
Capt. B. F. Williams. Parke County, Indiana, contributed
a large delegation the same day, under the lead of John
W. Stryker, Jacob Church, John R. Johnson, A. O. Benson,
W. W. McCune, Joseph H. Jordan, and A. A. Hargrave,
of Rockville, and 300 school children, in charge of
A. R. McMurty. Dr. T. F. Leech was orator for the Parke
visitors.
My Wabash County Friends and my Little Friends from Parke—I
am very glad to meet you here to-day. My friend who has spoken
for Wabash County has very truly said that the relations between
me and the Republicans of that county have always been exceedingly
cordial. I remember well when I first visited your county
in 1860, almost a boy in years, altogether a boy in political experience.
I was then a candidate for Reporter of the Decisions of the
Supreme Court of this State. You had in one of your own citizens,
afterward a distinguished soldier, a candidate for that office
in the convention that nominated me, but that did not interfere
at all with the cordial welcome from your people when, as the
nominee of the party, I came into your county. I think from
that day to this my name has never been mentioned in any convention
for any office that I have not had almost the unanimous support
of the Republicans of Wabash County. [Applause.] This is
no new interest which you now manifest to-day. The expressions
of your confidence have been very numerous and have been continued
through nearly thirty years.
There is one word on one subject that I want to say. Our Democratic
friends tell us that there are about a hundred millions—their
arithmeticians do not agree on the exact figures—in the public
Treasury for which the Government has no need. They have found[144]only this method of using it, viz.: depositing it in the national
banks of the country, to be loaned out by them to our citizens at
interest, the Government getting no interest whatever from the
banks. I suggested, and it was not an original suggestion with
me—Senator Sherman has advocated the same policy with great
ability in the Senate—that this money had better be used in buying
Government bonds, because the Government would make some
money in applying it that way, and there was no other way in
which they could get any interest on it at all. But it is said if
we use it in this manner we pay a premium to the bondholders.
But it is only the same premium that the bonds are bringing in the
market. In other words, as I said the other day, capitalists who
can use their money as they please—put it out on mortgages, at interest,
or in any other way—think the Government bond at the current
rate of premium is a good investment for them. Now, the
Government can buy those bonds at that premium and save a great
deal of interest. I will not undertake to give you figures. One
issue of these bonds matures in 1907, and bears four per cent. annual
interest. Now, suppose this surplus money were to remain all
that time in the banks without bringing any interest to the Government;
is there a man here so dull that he cannot see the great loss
that would result to the people? I have another objection to this
policy: the favoritism that is involved in it. We have heard—and
from such high authority that I think that we must accept it as
true—that the great patronage appertaining to the office of President
of the United States involves a public peril. Now, suppose we
add to that danger a hundred millions of dollars that the Secretary
of the Treasury can put in this community or that, in this bank or
that, at his pleasure; is not the power of the executive perilously
increased? Is it right that the use of this vast sum should be a
matter of mere favoritism, that the Secretary should be allowed to
put $10,000,000 of this surplus in Indianapolis and none of it in
Kansas City, or $75,000,000 in New York and none in Indianapolis?
If the money is used in buying bonds it finds its natural place—goes
where it belongs. This is a most serious objection to the present
method of dealing with the surplus. But if you still object to
paying the market premium when we buy these bonds, see how it
works the other way. The banks deposit their bonds in the Treasury
to secure these deposits, get the Government money without
interest, and still draw interest on their bonds. If any of you had
a note for a thousand dollars due in five years, bearing interest,
and your credit was so good that the note was worth a premium,
and you had twelve hundred dollars that you could not put out at[145]interest so as to offset the interest on your note, would you not
make money by using this surplus to take up the note at a fair
premium? Would you think it wise finance to give the thousand
dollars that you had on hand to your creditor without interest and
allow him to deposit your note with you as security, you paying
interest on the note until it was due and getting no interest on
your deposit? [Laughter and applause.].
I welcome my young friends from Parke County. There is nothing
fuller of interest than childhood. There is so much promise and
hope in it. Expectancy makes life very rosy to them and them
very interesting to us who have passed beyond the turn of life.
[Applause.] You are fortunate in these kind instructors, who from
week to week instil into your minds the principles of religion and
of morality; but do not forget that there is another vine of beauty
that may be appropriately twined with those—the love of your
country and her institutions. [Applause.] I thank you again for
this cordial evidence of your regard. The skies are threatening,
and as there is danger that our meeting may be interrupted by rain
I will stop here in order that I may meet each of you personally.
[Cheers.]
Ohioand Indiana united to-day again, through their
delegations, aggregating 4,000 citizens, in paying their
respects to General Harrison. The Tippecanoe Veteran
Association of Columbus, Ohio, J. E. St. Clair, President,
comprising 200 veterans, whose ages averaged 76 years,
was escorted by the Foraker Club of Columbus, led by
President Reeves. The veterans were accompanied by the
venerable Judge John A. Bingham, of Cadiz, and Gen. Geo.
B. Wright, of Columbus, both of whom made addresses.
No other club or organization, during the entire campaign,
was the recipient of such marked attentions as the Ohio
veterans; the youngest among them was 68 years of age.
Among the oldest were Wm. Armstrong, aged 91; Ansel
Bristol, 80; H. H. Chariton, 84; Francis A. Crum, 82;
Joseph Davis, 84; Henry Edwards, 80; John Fields, 82;
John A. Gill, 82; J. L. Grover, 81; J. A. S. Harlow, 87;[146]Harris Loomis, 84; Dan'l Melhousen, 80; Sam'l McCleland,
80; Judge John Otstot, 86; James Park, 80; Daniel
Short, 83; John Saul, 86; George Snoffer, 85; David Taylor,
87; Jacob Taylor, 88; J. D. Fuller, 82, and Luther
Hillery, aged 90, who knew William Henry Harrison before
his first nomination. Prominent in the Foraker Club
were Dr. A. W. Harden and D. K. Reif.
The Tipton County, Indiana, visitation was under the
auspices of the First Voters' Club of the town of Tipton.
A large club of Tippecanoe campaign veterans headed
their column, led by Chief Marshal J. A. Swoveland, assisted
by M. W. Pershing, James Johns, John F. Pyke,
R. J. McCalion, Isaac Booth, J. Q. Seright, and J. Wolverton.
Judge Daniel Waugh, of Tipton, was the mouthpiece
of the delegation.
From Elkhart County, Indiana, came a notable delegation
of a thousand business men, prominent among whom
were State Senator Davis, Hon. Geo. W. Burt, Daniel Zook,
H. J. Beyerle, E. G. Herr, D. W. Neidig, T. H. Dailey, D.
W. Granger, and I. W. Nash, of Goshen; and James H.
State, A. C. Manning, J. W. Fieldhouse, J. G. Schreiner,
A. P. Kent, J. H. Cainon, Frank Baker, and Jacob Berkley,
of Elkhart City. Hon. O. Z. Hubbell was spokesman for
the delegation. Judge Bingham's eloquent address was
listened to with marked attention.
Gentlemen, my Ohio and Indiana Friends—Again about this platform
there are gathered representatives from these two great States.
Your coming is an expression of a common interest, a recognition
of the fact that there is a citizenship that is wider than the lines
of any State. [Cheers.] That over and above that just pride in
your own communities, which you cherish so jealously, there is a
fuller pride in the one flag, to which we all give our allegiance, and
in the one Constitution, which binds the people of these States together
indissolubly in a Government strong enough to protect its
humblest citizen wherever he may sojourn. [Prolonged cheers.]
Your State institutions are based, like those of the Nation, upon[147]the great principles of human liberty and equality, and are consecrated
to the promotion of social order and popular education.
But, above all this, resting on like foundations, is the strong
arch of the Union that binds us together as a Nation. You are
citizens of the United States, and as such have common interests
that suggest this meeting. [Cheers.]
I cannot speak separately to the various organizations represented
here. There is a broad sense in which you are one. But I cannot
omit to pay a hearty tribute of thanks to these venerable men who
are gathered about me to-day. I value this tribute from them
more than words can tell. I cannot, without indelicacy, speak
much of that campaign to which they brought the enthusiasm of
their earlier life and to which their memories now turn with so
much interest. If, out of it, they have brought on with them in
life to this moment and have transferred to me some part of the
respect which another won from them, then I will find in their
kindness a new stimulus to duty. [Applause and cries, "We
have; we have!"] In looking over, the other day, a publication of
the campaign of 1840, I fell upon a card signed by fifteen Democrats
of Orange, N. J., giving their reasons for leaving the Democratic
party. It has occurred to me that it might be interesting to
some of these old gentlemen. [Cries of "We want to hear it!"
and "Read it!"]
It was as follows: "We might give many reasons for this change
in our political opinions. The following, however, we deem sufficient:
We do not believe the price of labor in this free country
should be reduced to the standard prescribed by despots in foreign
countries. [Applause.] We do not believe in fighting for the country
and being unrepresented in the councils of the country. We
do not believe in an exclusive, hard, metallic currency any more
than we believe in hard bread or no bread! We do not believe it
was the design of the framers of the Constitution that the President
should occupy his time during the first term in electioneering
for his re-election to a second term!" [Loud laughter and applause.]
I have read this simply as an historical curiosity and to
refresh your recollections as to some of the issues of that campaign.
If it has any application to our modern politics I will leave you to
make it. [Laughter and applause.] I have recently been talking,
and have one thing further to say, about the surplus.
There is a very proper use I think that can be made of more than
twenty millions of it. During the Civil War our customs receipts
and our receipts from internal taxes, which last had brought under
tribute almost every pursuit in life, were inadequate to the great[148]drain upon our Treasury caused by the Civil War. Our Congress,
exercising one of the powers of the Constitution, levied a direct tax
upon the States. Ohio paid her part of it, Indiana paid hers, and
so did the other loyal States. The Southern States were in rebellion
and did not pay theirs. Now we have come to a time when
the Government has surplus money, and the proposition was made
in Congress to return this tax to the States that had paid it. [Applause.]
The State of Indiana would have received one million
dollars, which my fellow-citizens of this State know would have
been a great relief to our taxpayers in the present depleted condition
of our treasury. [Cheers.] I do not recall the exact amount
Ohio would have received, but it was much larger. If any one
asks, Why repay this tax? this illustration will be a sufficient answer:
Suppose five men are associated in a business corporation.
The corporation suffers losses and its capital is impaired. An assessment
becomes necessary, and three members pay their assessments
while two do not. The corporation is again prosperous and
there is a surplus of money in the treasury. What shall be done
with it? Manifestly, justice requires that the two delinquents
should pay up or that there should be returned to the other three
the assessment levied upon them. [Great cheering.] A bill providing
for the repayment of the tax was killed in the House of
Representatives, not by voting it down, but by filibustering, a majority
of the House being in favor of its passage. And those who
defeated the bill by those revolutionary tactics were largely from
the States that had not paid the tax. [Cheers.] I mention these
facts to show that twenty millions of the surplus now lying in the
banks, where it draws no interest, might very righteously be used so
as to greatly lighten the real burdens of taxation now resting on
the people—burdens that the people know to be taxes without any
argument from our statesmen. [Applause and laughter.] I am a
lover of silence [laughter], and yet when such assemblies as these
greet me with their kind, earnest faces and their kinder words, I
do not know how I can do less than to say a few words upon some
of these great public questions. I have spoken frankly and fearlessly
my convictions upon these questions. [Cheers and cries of
"Good! Good!"] And now, unappalled by the immensity of this
audience, I will complete the accustomed programme and take by the
hand such of you as desire to meet me personally. [Cheers.]
General Harrison'svisitors this day came from Ohio
and Pennsylvania. Hancock and Allen counties, Ohio,
sent over a thousand, including the Harrison and Morton
Battalion of Lima, commanded by Capt. Martin Atmer,
and the Republican Veteran Club of Findlay, Rev. R. H.
Holliday, President. The Chief Marshal of the combined
delegations was Major S. F. Ellis, of Lima, hero of the
forlorn hope storming column which carried the intrenchments
at Port Hudson, La., June 15, 1863. Prominent
members of the Allen County delegation were Hon. Geo.
Hall, Geo. P. Waldorf, S. S. Wheeler, J. F. Price, W. A.
Campbell, J. J. Marks, and Burt Hagedorn. Major S. M.
Jones was spokesman for the visitors.
General Harrison, with his usual vigor, replied:
Gentlemen and my Ohio Friends—The State of my nativity has
again placed me under obligations by this new evidence of the respect
of her people. I am glad to meet you and to notice in the
kind and interested faces into which I look a confirmation of the
cordial remarks which have been addressed to me on your behalf.
You each feel a personal interest and, I trust, a personal responsibility
in this campaign. The interest which expresses itself only
in public demonstrations is not of the highest value. The citizen
who really believes that this election will either give a fresh impulse
to the career of prosperity and honor in which our Nation
has walked since the war, or will clog and retard that progress,
comes far short of his duty if he does not in his own place as a citizen
make his influence felt for the truth upon those who are near
him. [Applause.] You come from a community that has recently
awakened to the fact that beneath the soil which has long yielded
bounteous harvests to your farmers there was stored by nature a
great and new source of wealth. You, in common with neighboring
communities in Ohio and with other communities in our State,
have only partially realized as yet the increase in wealth that oil
and natural gas will bring to them, if it is not checked by destructive
changes in our tariff policy. This fact should quicken and
intensify the interest of these communities in this contest for the
preservation of the American system of protection. [Applause.]
It is said by some of our opponents that a protective tariff has no[150]influence upon wages; that labor in the United States has nothing
to fear from the competition from pauper labor; that in the contest
between pauper labor and high priced labor pauper labor was
always driven out. Do such statements as these fall in line with
experiences of these workingmen who are before me? [Cries of
"No, no!"] If that is true, then why the legislative precautions
we have wisely taken against the coming of pauper labor to our
shores? It is because you know, every one of you, that in a contest
between two rival establishments here, or between two rival
countries, that that shop or that country that pays the lowest wages—and
so produces most cheaply—can command the market. If the
products of foreign mills that pay low wages are admitted here
without discriminating duties, you know there is only one way to
meet such competition, and that is by reducing wages in our mills.
[Applause.] They seek to entice you by the suggestion that you
can wear cheaper clothing when free access is given to the products
of foreign woollen mills; and yet they mention also that now, in
some of our own cities, the men, and especially the women, who
are manufacturing the garments we wear are not getting adequate
wages, and that among some of them there is suffering. Do they
hope that when the coat is made cheaper the wages of the man or
woman who makes it will be increased? The power of your labor
organizations to secure increased wages is greatest when there is a
large demand for the product you are making at fair prices. You
do not strike for better wages on a falling market. When the mills
are running full time, when there is a full demand at good prices
for the product of your toil, and when warehouses are empty, then
your organization may effectively insist upon increased wages.
Did any of you ever see one of the organized efforts for better
wages succeed when the mill was running on half time, and there
was a small demand at falling prices in the market for the product?
[Applause.] The protective system works with your labor organization
to secure and maintain a just compensation for labor.
Whenever it becomes true—as it is in some other countries—that
the workingman spends to-day what he will earn to-morrow, then
your labor organizations will lose their power. Then the workman
becomes in very fact a part of the machine he operates. He cannot
leave it, for he has eaten to-day bread that he is to earn to-morrow.
But when he eats to-day bread that he earned last week
or last year, then he may successfully resist any unfair exactions.
[Applause.] I do not say that we have here an ideal condition. I
do not deny that in connection with some of our employments the
conditions of life are hard. But the practical question is this: Is[151]not the condition of our working people on the average comparatively
a great deal better than that of any other country? [Applause
and cries of "Good! Good!"]
If it is, then you will carefully scan all these suggestions before
you consent that the work of foreign workmen shall supply our
market, now supplied by the products of the hands of American
workmen. I thank you again. The day is threatening and cool,
and I beg you to excuse further public speech. [Applause.]
At night 200 Pennsylvanians, who came to Indiana to
aid in developing the natural gas industry, called upon
General Harrison at his residence, under the direction of
a committee composed of Capt. J. C. Gibney, J. B. Wheeler,
and Geo. A. Richards. Their spokesman was Wm. McElwaine,
a fellow-workman.
General Harrison addressed them and said:
Gentlemen—It is very pleasant for me to meet you to-night in
my own home. The more informal my intercourse can be made
with my fellow-citizens the more agreeable it is to me. To you,
and all others who will come informally to my home, I will give a
hearty greeting. I am glad to see these representatives from the
State of Pennsylvania whose business pursuits have called them to
make their home with us in Indiana. The State of Pennsylvania
has a special interest for me in the fact that it was the native State
of a mother who, though nearly forty years dead, still lives affectionately
in my memory. I welcome you here to this State as those
who come to settle among us under new conditions of industrial
and domestic life, to bring into our factories and our homes this
new fuel from which we hope so much, not only in the promotion
of domestic comfort and economy, but in the advancement of our
manufacturing institutions. Your calling is one requiring high
skill and intelligence and great fidelity. The agent with which
you deal is an admirable servant but a dangerous master, and
through carelessness may bring a peril instead of a blessing into our
households and into our communities. I am glad that Indiana, so
long drained upon by the States west of the Mississippi, has at last
felt in your coming from that stanch, magnificent Republican commonwealth
some restoration of this drain, which has made the
struggle for Republican success in Indiana doubtful in our previous
elections. It is time some of the States east of us, having such
majorities as Pennsylvania, were contributing not only to our business
enterprise and prosperity, but to the strengthening of the[152]Republican ranks, which have been depleted by the invitations
which the agricultural States of the West have extended to our enterprising
young men. I welcome your here to-night, and will be
glad to have a personal introduction to each of you. [Applause.]
Ohioand Illinois did honor this day again to the Republican
nominee. From Cleveland came 800 voters; their
organizations were the Harrison Boys in Blue—200 veterans
of the Civil War—commanded by Gen. James Barnett;
the Garfield Club, led by Thomas R. Whitehead and
Albert M. Long; the Logan Club, headed by Capt. W. R.
Isham, and the German Central Club. Prominent in the
delegation were Hon. Amos Townsend, John Gibson, and
Major Palmer, the blind orator. Gen. E. Myers spoke for
the Buckeyes. The city of Normal, McLean County,
Illinois, sent a delegation of 200 teachers and students of
the State Normal School, including 70 ladies. Student
William Galbraith spoke for his associates.
Gentlemen and Friends—The organizations represented here this
morning have for me each an individual interest. Each is suggestive
of a line of thought whichIshould be glad to follow, but I
cannot, in the few moments that I can speak to you in this chilly
atmosphere, say all that the names and character of your respective
clubs suggest as appropriate. I welcome those comrades in the
Union army in the Civil War. [Cheers.]
Death wrought its work in ghastly form in those years when,
patiently, fearlessly, and hopefully, you carried the flag to the
front and brought it at last in triumph to the Nation's capital.
[Cheers.] Death, since, in its gentler forms, has been coming
into the households where the veterans that were spared from shot
and shell abide. The muster-roll of the living is growing shorter.
The larger company is being rapidly recruited. You live not
alone in the memories of the war. Your presence here attests that,
as citizens, you feel the importance of these civil strifes. You
recall the incidents of the great war, not in malice, not to stir or
revive sectional divisions, or to re-mark sectional lines, but because[153]you believe that it is good for the Nation that loyalty to the flag
and heroism in its defence should be remembered and honored.
[Cheers.] There is not a veteran here, in this Republican Club of
veterans, who does not desire that the streams of prosperity in the
Southern States should run bank-full. [Cheers.]
There is not one who does not sympathize with her plague-stricken
communities, and rejoice in every new evidence of her
industrial development. The Union veterans have never sought to
impose hard conditions upon the brave men they vanquished. The
generous terms of surrender given by General Grant were not alone
expressions of his own brave, magnanimous nature. The hearts of
soldiers who carried the gun and the knapsack in his victorious
army were as generous as his. You were glad to accept the renewal
of the Confederate soldier's allegiance to the flag as the happy end
of all strife; willing that he should possess the equal protection and
power of a citizenship that you had preserved for yourselves and
secured to him. [Cheers.] You have only asked—and you may
confidently submit to the judgment of every brave Confederate
soldier whether the terms are not fair—that the veteran of the
Union army shall have, as a voter, an equal influence in the affairs
of the country that was saved by him for both with the man who
fought against the flag, and that soldiers of neither army shall
abridge the rights of others under the law. [Great cheering.]
Less than that you cannot accept with honor; less than that a generous
foe would not consent to offer.
To the gentlemen of the John A. Logan Club let me say: You
have chosen a worthy name for your organization. Patriot, soldier,
and statesman, Logan's memory will live in the affectionate admiration
of his comrades and in the respect of all his opponents. His
home State was Illinois, but his achievements were national.
To these German-American Republicans I give a most cordial
welcome. You have been known in our politics as a people well
informed upon all the great economic questions that have arisen
for settlement. You have always been faithful to an honest currency.
[Cheers.] The enticements of depreciated money did not
win you from sound principle. You bravely stood for a paper currency
that should be the true equivalent of coin. [Cries of "Good!
Good!"] Those who, like your people, have learned the lessons of
thrift and economy in your old-country homes, and have brought
them here with you, realized that above all things the laborer
needed honest money that would not shrink in his hands when it
had paid him for an honest day's toil. And now, when another
great economic question is pressing for determination, I do not[154]doubt that you will as wisely and as resolutely help to settle that
also.
As the great German chancellor, that student of human government
and affairs, turning his thoughtful study toward the history
of our country since the war, has declared that in his judgment our
protective tariff system was the source of our strength, that by
reason of it we were able to deal with a war debt that seemed to be
appalling and insurmountable, I do not doubt that you, too, men
who believe in work and in thrift, and so many of whom are
everywhere sheltered under a roof of their own, will unite with
us in this struggle to preserve our American market for our own
workingmen, and to maintain here a living standard of wages.
[Cheers.]
To these students who come fresh from the class-room to give me
a greeting this morning I also return my sincere thanks. I suggest
to them that they be not only students of books and maxims, but
also of men and markets; that in the study of the tariff question
they do not forget, as so many do, that they are Americans.
I thank you all again for your visit. I regret that I am not
able to give you, in my own home, a personal and more cordial
greeting. My house is not large enough to receive you. [A
voice, "Your heart is!"] Yes, I have room enough in my heart
for all. [Great cheering.] I am very sincerely grateful for these
evidences of your personal regard. Out of them all; out of the
coming of these frequent and enthusiastic crowds of my fellow-citizens;
out of all these kind words; out of these kind faces of
men and women; out of the hearty "God-speeds" you give me, I
hope to bring an inspiration and an endowment for whatever may
be before me in life, whether I shall walk in private or public
paths. [Great cheering.]
The largest delegation of the day, numbering over a
thousand business men, arrived from Chicago, after stoppingen routeat several important points, where their
orators, Gen. H. H. Thomas, George Drigg, and Judge
John W. Green, made speeches. Their notable political
organizations were the First Tippecanoe Club of Chicago,
100 veterans of 1840, led by Dr. D. S. Smith; the Logan
Club, and the Twelfth Ward Republican Club, led by
Charles Catlin, E. S. Taylor, Wm. Wilkes, and Joseph
Dixon. Judge Green and Dr. Smith delivered addresses.
My Illinois Friends—It is a source of great regret to me that we
are not able to make your reception more comfortable. The chill
of this September evening and of this open grove is not suggestive
of the hospitable and cordial welcome that our people would
have been glad to extend to you. Our excuse for this time may be
found in the vastness of this assemblage. I am pleased to have
this fresh and imposing evidence of the enthusiasm and interest of
the Illinois Republicans. [Cheers.] There is nothing in the great
history of the Republican party that need make any man blush to
own himself a Republican. [Cheers.] There is much to kindle
the enthusiasm of all lovers of their country. We do not rest in
the past, but we rejoice in it. [Cheers.] The Republican party
has so consistently followed the teachings of those great Americans
whose names the world reveres that we may appropriately hold a
Republican convention on the birthday of any one of them.
[Cheers.] The calendar of our political saints does not omit one
name that was conspicuous in peace or war. [Cheers.] We can
celebrate Jackson's birthday or the anniversary of the battle of New
Orleans because he stood for the unity of the Nation, and his victory
confirmed it in the respect of the world. [Great cheering.]
There is no song of patriotism that we do not sing in our meetings.
There is no marble that has been builded to perpetuate the glory of
our soldiers about which we may not appropriately assemble and
proclaim the principles that we advocate. [Cheers.] We believe in
our country, and give it our love and first care. We have always
advocated that policy in legislation which was promotive of the
interests and honor of our country. [Cheers.] I will not discuss
any particular public topic to-day, as the conditions are so unfavorable
for out-door speaking. Let me thank you again for this
cordial evidence of your interest and for the personal respect which
you have shown to me. I hope you will believe that my heart is
deeply touched in these manifestations of the friendliness of my
fellow-citizens. If in anything I shall come short of the high expectations
and hopes they have formed, it will not be because I do
not feel myself put under the highest obligations by these evidences
of their friendly regard to do my utmost to continue in their
respect and confidence. [Great cheering.]
Thefourteenth week of General Harrison's public receptions
opened this date with the arrival of an enthusiastic
Republican club from the distant city of Tower, Minn.,
most of whose members were engaged in the iron industry.
They left a huge specimen of Vermilion range iron ore—weighing
over 500 pounds—in the front yard of the Harrison
residence. Prominent in the delegation were Dr. Fred
Barnett, Capt. Elisha Marcom, S. F. White, Chas. R.
Haines, John Owens, W. N. Shepard, N. H. Bassett, S. J.
Noble, J. E. Bacon, J. B. Noble, Frank Burke, W. H.
Wickes, Chas. L. White, A. Nichaud, D. McKinley, and
Page Norris; also Geo. M. Smith and W. H. Cruikshank,
of Duluth.
Immediately following the reception of the Minnesota
visitors came two large delegations from Fulton and Marshall
counties, Indiana. The Fulton leaders were J. H.
Bibler, Dr. W. S. Shafer, Dr. E. Z. Capell, Arthur Howard,
Samuel Heftly, Henry Mow, C. D. Sisson, Arch Stinson,
J. F. Collins, A. F. Bowers, W. J. Howard, and T. M.
Bitters, of Rochester. M. L. Essick was their spokesman.
Among the prominent members of the Marshall
County delegation were M. W. Simons, John W. Parks,
J. W. Siders, Edward McCoy, M. S. Smith, John V. Astley,
Enoch Baker, I. H. Watson, and Abram Shafer, of
Plymouth. H. G. Thayer delivered the address.
My Indiana Friends—This is a home company to-day. Usually
our Indiana visitors have met here delegations from other States.
I am sure you will understand that I place a special value upon
these evidences of the interest Indiana Republicans are taking in
the campaign. Whatever the fate of the battle may be elsewhere, it
is always a source of pride to the soldier and to his leader that the
part of the line confided to their care held fast. [Applause.] I
feel that I ought also to acknowledge the friendliness and co-operation
which has been already extended to us in this campaign by[157]many who have differed with us heretofore. [Applause.] It is
encouraging to hear that the prosperous and intelligent farmers of
Marshall and Fulton counties have not been misled by the attempt
to separate the agricultural vote from the vote of the shop. It has
seemed to me that the Mills bill was framed for the purpose of
driving from the protection column the agricultural voters, not
by showing them favor, but the reverse—by placing agricultural
products on the free list, thus withdrawing from the farmer the
direct benefits he is receiving from our tariff laws as affecting
the products of his labor, hoping that the farmers might then be
relied upon to pull down the rest of the structure. I am glad to
believe that we have in Indiana a class of farmers too intelligent
to be caught by these unfriendly and fallacious propositions.
[Applause.] I had to-day a visit from twenty or more gentlemen
who came from the town of Tower, in the most northern
part of Minnesota, where, within the last four years, there has
been discovered and developed a great deposit of iron ore especially
adapted to the manufacture of steel. Within the four
years since these mines were opened they tell me that about a million
tons of ore have been mined and sent to the furnaces. They
also mentioned the fact that arrangements are already being
made to bring block coal of Indiana to the mouth of these iron
mines, that the work of smelting may be done there. This is a
good illustration of the interlocking of interests between widely
separated States of the Union [applause]—a new market and a
larger demand for Indiana coal.
The attempt is often made to create the impression that only particular
classes of workingmen are benefited by a protective tariff.
There can be nothing more untrue. The wages of all labor—labor
upon the farm, labor upon our streets—has a direct and essential
relation to the scale of wages that is paid to skilled labor. [Applause.]
One might as well say that you could bring down the
price of a higher grade of cotton cloth without affecting the price
of lower grades as to say that you can degrade the price of skilled
labor without dragging down the wages of unskilled labor. [Applause.]
This attempt to classify and schedule the men who are
benefited by a protective tariff is utterly deceptive. [Applause.]
The benefits are felt by all classes of our people—by the farmer as
well as by the workmen in our mills; by the man who works on
the street as well as the skilled laborer who works in the mill; by
the women in the household, and by the children who are now in
the schools and might otherwise be in the mills. [Applause.] It
is a policy broad enough to embrace within the scope of its benefi[158]cent
influence all our population. [Applause.] I thank you for
your visit, and will be glad to meet any of you personally who desire
to speak to me. [Applause.]
ThePorter-Columbian Club, a local organization named
in honor of Governor Porter, with a membership of 700
workingmen, paid their respects to General Harrison on
this night, commanded by their President and founder,
Marshall C. Woods, who delivered an address.
Mr. Woods and my Friends—My voice is not in condition to
speak at much length in this cool night air. I am very deeply
grateful for this evidence of the respect of this large body of
Indianapolis workingmen. I am glad to be assured by what has
been said to me that you realize that this campaign has a special
interest for the wage-earners of America. [Cries of "Good!
Good!"]
That is the first question in life with you, because it involves the
subsistence and comfort of your families. I do not wonder then
that, out of so many different associations in life, you have come
together into this organization to express your determination to
vote for the maintenance of the American system of protection.
[Great cheering.]
I think you can all understand that it is not good for American
workingmen that the amount of work to be done in this country
should be diminished by transferring some of it to foreign shops.
[Applause.] Nor ought the wages paid for the work that is done
here to be diminished by bringing you into competition with the
underpaid labor of the old country. [Applause.]
I am not speaking any new sentiment to-night. Many times before
the Chicago convention I have, in public addresses, expressed
the opinion that every workingman ought to have such wages as
would not only yield him a decent and comfortable support for his
family, and enable him to keep his children in school and out of
the mill in their tender age, but would allow him to lay up against
incapacity by sickness or accident, or for old age, some fund on
which he could rely. These views I entertain to-night. I beg you
to excuse further public speech and to allow me to receive personally
such of you as care to speak to me. [Applause.]
ThreeStates did homage to the Republican nominee
this date. From Grand Rapids and Muskegon, Mich.,
came 500 visitors, under the auspices of the Belknap Club
of Grand Rapids. The wife of Governor Luce was a
member of the delegation, accompanied by R. C. Luce and
W. A. Davitt. Other prominent members were: Judge
F. J. Russell, Hon. A. B. Turner, Col. C. T. Foote, J. B.
Pantlind, Don J. Leathers, Col. E. S. Pierce, Wm. A.
Gavett, H. J. Felker, D. G. Crotty, H. J. Stevens, Aldrich
Tateum, Louis Kanitz, A. E. Yerex, and N. McGraft, of
Grand Rapids; Thomas A. Parish and Geo. Turner, of
Grand Haven; and John J. Cappon, of Holland. John
Patton, Jr., of Grand Rapids, was orator.
The Ohio visitors came from Tiffin, Seneca County,
led by the venerable A. C. Baldwin, Capt. John McCormick,
Albert Corthell, Capt. Edward Jones, Edward
Naylor, and J. B. Rosenburger. The wife of Gen. Wm.
H. Gibson was an honored guest of the delegation, accompanied
by Mrs. Robert Lysle and Mrs. Root. J. K. Rohn
was spokesman for the Ohio visitors.
The third delegation comprised 1,200 voters from Jay
County, Indiana, led by Gen. N. Shepherd, Theodore Bailey,
Richard A. Green, John Geiger, E. J. Marsh, Frank
H. Snyder, and M. V. Moudy, of Portland. Jesse M. La
Follette was their speaker.
To these several addresses General Harrison, in response,
said:
My Michigan, Ohio, and Indiana Friends—These cordial manifestations
of your personal regard move me very deeply [applause],
but I do not at all appropriate to myself the great expressions of
popular interest of which this meeting is only one. I understand
that my relation to these public questions and to the people is a
representative one—that the interest which thus expresses itself is
in principles of government rather than in men. [Cheers.] I am
one of the oldest Republicans; my first presidential vote was given[160]to the first Republican candidate for that office [applause], and it
has always been a source of profound gratification to me that, in
peace and war, a high spirit of patriotism and devotion to our
country has always pervaded and dominated the party. [Cheers.]
When, during the Civil War, the clouds hung low, disasters thickened,
and the future was crowded with uncanny fears, never did
any Republican convention assemble without declaring its faith in
the ultimate triumph of our cause [great cheering]; and now, with
a broad patriotism that embraces and regards the interests of all
the States, it advocates policies that will develop and unite all our
communities in the friendly and profitable interchange of commerce
as well as in a lasting political union. [Applause.] These
great Western States will not respond to the attempt to excite prejudice
against New England. We advocate measures that are as
broad as our national domain; that are calculated to distil their
equal blessing upon all the land. [Cheers.] The people of the
great West recognize and value the great contribution which those
commonwealths about Plymouth Rock have made to the civilization,
material growth, and manhood of our Western States.
[Cheers.] We are not envious of the prosperity of New England;
we rejoice in it. We believe that the protective policy developed
her great manufacturing institutions and made her rich, and we do
not doubt that a continuance of that policy will produce the same
results in Michigan, Ohio, and Indiana. [Cheers.] We are not
content to remain wholly agricultural States in our relations to
either New England or old England. [Applause.] We believe
that in all these great Western States there are minerals in the soil
and energy and skill in the brains and arms of our people that will
yet so multiply and develop our manufacturing industries as to
give us a nearer home market for much of the products of our soil.
[Cheers.] And for that great surplus which now and always, perhaps,
we shall not consume at home we think a New England market
better than a foreign market. [Enthusiastic and prolonged
cheering.] The issue upon this great industrial question is drawn
as sharply as the lines were ever drawn between contending armies.
Men are readjusting their party relations upon this great question.
The appeal that is now made for the defence of our American system
is finding its response, and many of those who are opposed to
us upon other questions are committing such questions to the future
for settlement, while they help us to settle now and for an indefinite
future the great question of the preservation of our commercial
independence. [Applause.] The Democratic party has
challenged our protected industries to a fight of extermination.[161]The wage-earners of our country have accepted the challenge. The
issue of the contest will settle for many years our tariff policy.
[Prolonged cheering.] The eloquent descriptions to which we
have listened of the material wealth of the great State of Michigan
have been full of interest to us as citizens of Indiana. We cannot
doubt that the people of a State having such generous invitations
to the developments of great home wealth in manufacturing and
mining pursuits will understand the issue that is presented, and
will cast their influence in favor of that policy which will make
that development rapid and sure; and more than all, and better
than all, will maintain in her communities a well-paid class of
wage-workers. [Cheers.] Our wage-workers vote; they are American
citizens, and it is essential that they be kept free from the
slavery of want and the discontents bred of injustice. [Applause.]
I thank my Michigan friends for these handsome specimens of
the products of their mines and of their mills. I shall cherish
them with grateful recollection of this pleasant visit. [Applause.]
To my Indiana friends, always generous, I return my thanks for
this new evidence of their esteem. [Cheers.]
To my Ohio friends, who so often before have visited me with
kind expressions of their regard, I return the thanks of a native-born
Ohioan. [Prolonged cheers from the Ohio delegation.]
Three great States are grouped here to-day. I remember at
Resaca, when the field and staff of the regiments that were to make
the assault were ordered to dismount, there was a Michigan officer
too sick to go on foot and too proud to subject himself to the imputation
of cowardice by staying behind.
He rode alone, the one horseman in that desperate charge, and
died on that bloody hillside rather than subject his State to the imputation
that one of her sons had lingered when the enemy was to
be engaged. He was a noble type of the brave men these great
States gave to the country. [Cheers.]
Wisconsinand Indiana were the States represented at
this day's reception. The Wisconsin visitors came from
Madison, Janesville, and Beloit. Prominent among them
were General Atwood, editor WisconsinState Journal,
Surgeon-General Palmer, W. T. Van Kirk, and T. G.
Maudt. R. C. Spooner spoke for the Badgers.
Fountain County, Indiana, sent 2,000 visitors, led by
a club of Tippecanoe veterans. Among their representative
men were H. La Tourette, W. W. Layton, John
H. Spence, of Covington; A. H. Clark, and W. H. Malory,
of Veedersburg; A. S. Peacock, H. C. Martin, and C. E.
Holm, of Attica. Capt. Benj. Hegeler, of Attica, delivered
the address on behalf of the Hoosiers.
My Wisconsin and my Indiana Friends—These great daily manifestations
of the interest of great masses of our people in the principles
represented by the Republican party are to me increasingly
impressive. I am glad to-day that Indiana has opportunity to welcome
a delegation from the magnificent State of Wisconsin.
[Cheers.] It offers a fitting opportunity to acknowledge my personal
obligation and the obligation of the Indiana Republicans for
the early and constant support which Wisconsin gave to the efforts
of the Indiana delegation in the Chicago convention. [Prolonged
cheers.] To-day two States, not contiguous in territory, but touching
in many interests, are met to express the fact that these great
electoral contests affect all our people. It is not alone in the choice
of Presidential electors that we have common interests. Our national
Congress, though chosen in separate districts, legislates for
all our people. Wisconsin has a direct interest that the ballot shall
be free and pure in Indiana, and Wisconsin and Indiana have a
direct interest that the ballot shall be free and pure in all the States.
[Great cheering.] Therefore let no man say that it is none of our
business how elections are conducted in other States. [Cheers.] I
believe that this great question of a free ballot, so much disturbed
by race questions in the South, would be settled this year if the
men of the South who believe with us upon the great question of
the protection of American industries would throw off old prejudices
and vote their convictions upon that question. [Cheers and
cries of "Good! Good!"] I believe there are indications that the
independent manhood of the South will this year strongly manifest
itself in this direction. Those intelligent and progressive citizens
of the South who are seeking to build up within their own States
diversified industries will not much longer be kept in bondage to
the traditions of the days when the South was wholly a community
of planters.
When they assert their belief in a protective tariff, by supporting
the only party that advocates that policy, the question of a[163]free ballot, so far as it is a Southern question, will be settled forever,
for they will have the power to insist that those who believe
with them shall vote, and that their votes shall be counted. [Applause.]
The protective policy, by developing a home supply and
limiting importations, helps us to maintain the balance of trade
upon our side in our dealings with the world. [Cheers.] Under
the tariff of 1846 from the year 1850 to 1860 the balance of trade
was continuously against us, aggregating in that period over three
hundred millions of dollars. Under the influence of a protective
tariff the balance of trade has been generally and largely with us,
unless disturbed by special conditions. Instead of sending our
gold abroad to pay a foreign balance we have usually been bringing
foreign gold here to augment our store. [Cheers.] I will not
detain you further. These daily demands upon me make it necessary
that I shall speak briefly. Let me thank most profoundly
those gentlemen and ladies from Wisconsin who have come so far
to bring me this tribute of their respect. I very highly value it.
These, my Indiana friends, unite with me in thanking you for
your presence to-day. [Cheers from the Indianians.] To my nearer
friends, my Fountain County friends, let me say I am profoundly
grateful to you for this large and imposing demonstration and for
the interest you are individually taking in this campaign. [Cheers.]
I do not think of it as a personal campaign. It has always seemed
to me to be altogether greater than that, and when I thank you for
your interest and commend your zeal it is an interest in principles
and a zeal for the truth that I approve. [Cheers.]
Saturday, October 6, was one of the great days of the
campaign. The first delegation, numbering 2,000, came
from Wells and Blackford counties, Indiana. Conspicuous
in their ranks were two large uniformed clubs of
ladies, one from Montpelier, and the Carrie Harrison Club
of Bluffton. In the Wells County contingent were many
1840 veterans and 21 newly-converted Democrats. Their
leaders were Asbury Duglay, D. H. Swaim, B. W. Bowman,
Peter Ulmer, Silas Wisner, Joseph Milholland, J.
C. Hatfield, and T. A. Doan. J. J. Todd was their spokesman.
Prominent in the Blackford delegation were Frank[164]Geisler, H. M. Campbell, W. L. Ritter, Eli Hamilton, R.
V. Ervin, W. A. Williams, John Sipe, and John Cantwell,
of Hartford City; J. C. Summerville, Wm. Pugh, J. H.
Morrical, G. A. Mason, John G. Ward, and J. M. Tinsley,
of Montpelier. Hon. B. G. Shinn delivered the address on
behalf of the Blackford people.
General Harrison confined his speech to State questions.
He said:
My Wells and Blackford County Friends—I am glad to meet you.
It is extremely gratifying to be assured by your presence here this
inclement day, and by the kind words which you have addressed
to me through your representatives, that I have some part in your
friendly regard as an individual. But individuals are not of the
first importance. That man who thinks that the prosperity of this
country or the right administration of its affairs is wholly dependent
upon him grossly exaggerates his value. The essential things
to us are the principles of government upon which our institutions
were builded, and by and through which we make that symmetrical
and safe growth which has characterized our Nation in the past,
and which is yet to raise it to a higher place among the nations
of the earth. [Applause.] We are Indianians—Hoosiers, if you
please [cheers]—and are proud of the State of which we are citizens.
Your spokesmen have referred with an honest pride to the
counties from which you have come, and that is well. But I would
like to suggest to you that every political community and neighborhood
has a character of its own, a moral character, as well as every
man and every woman, and it is exceedingly important, looked at
even from the side of material advantage, that our communities
should maintain a good reputation for social order, intelligence,
virtue, and a faithful and willing obedience to law. [Applause.]
It cannot be doubted that such a character possessed by any State
or county attracts immigration and capital, advances its material
development, and enhances the value of its farms. There has been
much in the history of Indiana that is exceedingly creditable.
There have been some things—there are some things to-day—that
are exceedingly discreditable to us as a political community; things
that I believe retard the advancement of our State and affect its
material prosperity by degrading it in the estimation of right-thinking
men. One of those things is this patent and open fact: that
the great benevolent institutions of this State, instead of being operated
upon the high plane that public charities should occupy, are[165]being operated and managed upon the lowest plane of party purposes
and advantage. [Cries of "That's so!"] Another such thing
is of recent occurrence. In the campaign of 1886, after advising
with the chief law officer of the State, a Democratic Governor declared
to the people of this State that there was a vacancy in the
office of Lieutenant-Governor which the people were entitled to fill
at the ensuing general election. The Democratic party acted upon
that advice, assembled in convention in this hall, and nominated
John C. Nelson for Lieutenant-Governor. The Republican party
followed with their convention, and placed in nomination that gallant
soldier, Robert S. Robertson. [Cheers.] These two gentlemen
went before the people of Indiana and made a public canvass for
the office. The election was held, and Colonel Robertson was chosen
by a majority of about 3,000. [Applause.] Is there a man in the
State, Democratic or Republican, who doubts that if the choice had
been otherwise, and Mr. Nelson had received a majority at the
polls, the House of Representatives, which was Republican, would
have met with the Democratic Senate in an orderly joint meeting,
for canvassing the votes, and that Mr. Nelson would have been inaugurated
as Lieutenant-Governor? [Cries of "No, no!"] But the
result was otherwise; and the public fame, the good reputation of
this State, was dishonored when, by force and brutal methods, the
voice of the people was stifled, and the man they had chosen was
excluded from the right to exercise the duties of the office of
Lieutenant-Governor. [Cries of "Yes, yes!"] Do the people think
that the attractiveness of Indiana as a home for Americans who believe
in social order and popular government has been increased
by this violent and disgraceful incident? Do our Democratic
friends who have an honest State pride, who would like to maintain
the honor and good reputation of the State, who would have
the people of our sister States believe that we have a people who
believe in a warm canvass but in a free ballot, and a manly and
ready acquiescence in election results, intend to support their leaders
in this violent exclusion from office of a duly chosen public
officer? Do those who are Democrats from principle, and not for
personal spoils, intend to support the men who have first prostituted
our benevolent institutions to party and now to personal advantage?
These things, if not reproved and corrected by our people,
will not only disgrace us in the estimation of all good people, but
will substantially retard the material development of the State.
[Cheers.] I am not talking to-day of questions in which I have
any other interest than that you have, my fellow-citizens. [Applause.]
I believe the material prosperity of Indiana, much more[166]the honor, will be advanced if her people in this State election
shall rebuke the shameless election frauds that have recently scandalized
our State, the prostitution of our benevolent institutions,
and the wanton violence that overturned the result of the popular
election in 1886. [Great cheering.]
Thegreat event of the day was the reception tendered
the veterans and citizens from Chicago, Hyde Park, Pullman,
South Chicago, and the town of Lake. They numbered
over 3,000, and arrived in the evening, after stoppingen routeat Danville, Ill., and Crawfordsville, Ind., to
participate in demonstrations. The Chicago contingent
comprised 800 members of the Union Veteran Club, commanded
by its President, Capt. John J. Healy; 600 members
of the Veteran Union League, led by Capt. James J.
Healy; the Blaine Club, Second Regiment Band, and
many smaller clubs. Leaders in the delegation were Major
McCarty, Col. Dan. W. Munn, Hon. Stephen A. Douglas,
Jr., S. W. King, Charles H. Hann, and others. Hyde
Park sent several hundred rolling-mill men; the city of
Pullman 200 car-builders; the town of Lake—"the largest
village in the world"—was represented by a flambeau
club, the Lake View Screw Club, and numerous other organizations.
Their leading representatives were Col. J.
Hodgkins, Judge C. M. Hawley, Hon. John E. Cowells,
Hon. B. E. Hoppin, Geo. C. Ingham, Judge Freen, Hon.
L. D. Condee, Joseph Hardacre, Edward Maher, M. J.
McGrath, A. G. Proctor, Frank I. Bennett, and Col. Foster.
The visitors were met by about 10,000 citizens and escorted
to Tomlinson Hall. When General Harrison appeared,
accompanied by Judge E. B. Martindale, Chairman
of the Reception Committee, there ensued a scene
never to be forgotten by those who witnessed it. The 6,000[167]people present arose to their chairs, surrounding the visiting
veterans, all frantically waving flags and banners.
The demonstration continued without abatement for ten
minutes. General Harrison stood as if dazed by the spectacle.
Finally ex-Governor Hamilton, of Illinois, secured
quiet, and on behalf of the veterans addressed the gathering,
followed by Judge E. W. Keightly on behalf of the
Hyde Park visitors.
General Harrison's response was by many regarded as
his greatest speech of the campaign. He said:
Comrades and Friends—It is a rare sight, and it is one very full
of interest to us as citizens of Indiana, to see this great hall filled
with the people of another State, come to evidence their interest
in great principles of government. [Cheers.] I welcome to-night
for myself and for our people this magnificent delegation from
Chicago and Hyde Park. [Cheers.] We have not before in the
procession of these great delegations seen its equal in numbers, enthusiasm,
and cordiality. I thank you profoundly for whatever of
personal respect there is in this demonstration [cheers]; but above
all, as an American citizen, I rejoice in this convincing proof that
our people realize the gravity and urgency of the issues involved in
this campaign. [Cheers.] I am glad to know that this interest
pervades all classes of our people. [Cheers.] This delegation,
composed of the business men of Chicago and of the men who
wield the hammer in the shops, shows a common interest in the
right decision of these great questions. [Great cheers.]
Our Government is not a government by classes or for classes of
our fellow-citizens. [Cheers.] It is a government of the people
and by the people. [Renewed cheering.] Its wise legislation distills
its equal blessings upon the homes of the rich and the poor.
[Cheers.] I am especially glad that these skilled, intelligent workmen
coming out of your great workshops have manifested, by their
coming, to their fellow-workmen throughout the country their appreciation
of what is involved for them in this campaign. [Prolonged
cheers.]
May that God who has so long blessed us as a Nation long defer
that evil day when penury shall be a constant guest in the homes
of our working people, and long preserve to us that intelligent,
thrifty and cheerful body of workmen that was our strength in
war and is our guaranty of social order in time of peace! [Great
cheering.] Comrades of the Civil War, it was true of the great[168]Union army, as it is said to be of the kingdom of heaven—not
many rich. [Cheers.] It was out of the homes of our working
people the great army came. It was the strong arm inured to
labor on the farm or in the shop that bore up the flag in the smoke
of battle, carried it through storms of shell and shot, and lifted it
again in honor over our national Capital. [Prolonged cheers.]
After so many historical illustrations of the evil effects of abandoning
the policy of protection for that of a revenue tariff, we
are again confronted by the suggestion that the principle of protection
shall be eliminated from our tariff legislation. Have we not
had enough of such experiments? Does not the history of our tariff
legislation tell us that every revenue tariff has been followed by
business and industrial crashes, and that a return to the policy of
protection has stimulated our industries and set our throbbing
workshops again in motion? [Cheers.] And yet, again and again,
the Democratic party comes forward with this pernicious proposition—for
it has been from that party always that the proposition
to abandon our protective policy and to substitute a revenue tariff
has come. [Cries of "That's so!"]
I had placed in my hands yesterday a copy of the London News
for September 13. The editor says in substance that, judging the
purposes of the Democratic party by the executive message of last
December, the English people were justified in believing that party
meant free trade; but if they were to accept the more recent utterances
of its leader, protesting that that was not their purpose, then
the editor thus states the issue presented by the Democratic party.
I read but a single sentence: "It is, at any rate, a contest between
protection and something that is not protection." [Prolonged and
wild cheering.] It is not of the smallest interest to you what that
other thing is. [Continued cheering.] It is enough to know that
it is not protection. [Renewed cheering.] Those who defend the
present Democratic policy declare that our people not only pay the
tariff duty upon all imported goods, but that a corresponding
amount is added to the price of every domestic competing article.
That for every dollar that is paid into the Treasury in the form of
a customs duty the people pay several dollars more in the enhanced
cost of the domestic competing article. Those who honestly hold
such doctrines cannot stop short of the absolute destruction of our
protective system. [Cries of "No, no!"] The man who preaches
such doctrines and denies that he is on the road to free trade is
like the man who takes passage on a train scheduled from here to
Cincinnati without a stop, and when the train is speeding on its
way at the rate of forty miles an hour, denies that he is going to[169]Cincinnati. [Great laughter and cheering.] The impulse of such
logic draws toward free trade as surely and swiftly as that engine
pulls the train to its appointed destination. It inevitably brings
us to the English rule of levying duties only upon such articles as
we do not produce at home, such as tea and coffee. That is purely
revenue tariff, and is practically free trade.
Against this the Republican party proposes that our tariff duty
shall be of an intelligent purpose, be levied chiefly upon competing
articles. [Cheers.] That our American workmen shall have the
benefit of discriminating duties upon the products of their labor.
[Cheers.] The Democratic policy increases importation, and, by
so much, diminishes the work to be done in America. It transfers
work from the shops of South Chicago to Birmingham. [Cries of
"Right you are!"] For, if a certain amount of any manufactured
article is necessary for a year's supply to our people, and we increase
the amount that is brought from abroad, by just so much we
diminish the amount that is made at home, and in just that proportion
we throw out of employment the men that are working here.
And not only so, but when this equal competition is established
between our shops and the foreign shops, there is not a man here
who does not know that the only condition under which the American
shop can run at all is that it shall reduce the wages of its employees
to the level of the wages paid in the competing shops
abroad. [Cheers.] This is, briefly, the whole story. I believe we
should look after and protect our American workingmen; therefore
I am a Republican. [Renewed enthusiastic cheering.]
But I will not detain you longer. [Cries of "Go on!"] You
must excuse me; I have been going on for three months. [A
voice, "And you'll go on for four years!"] I am somewhat under
restraint in what I can say, and others here are somewhat under
restraint as to what they can appropriately say in my presence. I
beg you therefore to allow me, after thanking you again for your
kindness, to retire that others who are here may address you.
[Great cheering.]
Inpoint of numbers the greatest day of the Indiana campaign
was Thursday, October 11, when over 50,000 visitors
arrived from all points in Indiana and along the border
counties of Ohio to participate in the greeting to the
Hon. James G. Blaine, who was the guest of General Harrison.
From the balcony of the New-Denison Hotel General
and Mrs. Harrison, accompanied by Mr. Blaine, Gen.
Adam King, of Baltimore; Col. A. L. Snowden and Gen.
D. H. Hastings, of Pennsylvania; Col. M. J. Murray, of
Massachusetts; Gen. W. C. Plummer, of Dakota; Corporal
James Tanner, of New York; ex-Senator Ferry, of
Michigan; Hon. R. W. Thompson, ex-Governor A. G.
Porter, Hon. J. N. Huston, Gen. A. P. Hovey, and Ira J.
Chase, reviewed probably the greatest political parade ever
witnessed in this country outside of the city of New York.
Twenty-five thousand men constituted the marching column,
in nine great divisions, commanded by Col. Charles
S. Millard, Chief Marshal, with Gen. James S. Carnahan,
Chief of Staff, and 200 aids. The division commanders
and principal aids were:
First Division, Gen. N. R. Ruckle, of Indianapolis.
Chief of Staff, Charles J. Many, of Indianapolis.
Second Division, Capt. H. M. Caylor, of Noblesville.
Chief of Staff, Major J. M. Watt, of Delphi.
Third Division, John W. Lovett, of Anderson. Chief
of Staff, Col. George Parker.
Fourth Division, Gen. Tom Bennett, of Richmond.
Chief of Staff, Capt. Ira B. Myers, of Peru.
Fifth Division, Col. T. C. Burnside, of Liberty. Chief
of Staff, J. W. Ream, of Muncie.
Sixth Division, Col. J. M. Story, of Franklin. Chief of
Staff, Capt. David Wilson, of Martinsville.
Seventh Division, Col. W. R. McClellen, of Danville.
Chief of Staff, Capt. W. H. Armstrong, of Terre Haute.
Eighth Division, Capt. T. H. B. McCain, of Crawfordsville.
Chief of Staff, Edward Watson, of Brazil.
Ninth Division, Capt. J. O. Pedigo, of Lebanon. Chief
of Staff, C. C. Shirley, of Kokomo.
Mr. Blaine visited the Exposition grounds in the afternoon,
where Major W. H. Calkins introduced him to an
audience of about 30,000, to whom he addressed a few
words. At night Mr. Blaine delivered one of his masterly
speeches at Tomlinson Hall to an audience of 6,000. At
the close of the Blaine meeting General Harrison received
a delegation from Cincinnati, consisting of A. B. Horton,
H. D. Emerson, Wm. Fredberger, James A. Graff, H. R.
Probasco, Dr. M. T. Carey, Abram Myer, Fred Pryor, and
Walter Hartpense, who called to invite him to attend the
Cincinnati Exposition on "Republican Day." A St. Louis
delegation, members of the Loyal Legion, also paid their
respects. Among them were Col. R. C. Kerens, Col. Nelson
Cole, Col. J. S. Butler, Major W. R. Hodges, Captain
Gleason, G. B. Adams, H. L. Morrill, C. H. Sampson, and
W. B. Gates.
On October 18 a party of distinguished railroad magnates
visited General Harrison. They were Hon. Chauncey
M. Depew, J. D. Layng, H. W. Webb, Sam'l Barton, Seward
C. Webb, and C. F. Cox, of New York; J. De Koven,
of Chicago; S. M. Beach, of Cleveland, and J. Q. Van
Winkle, of St. Louis.
On October 19 General Harrison received informally
150 survivors of the Eleventh Indiana Regiment, headed
by their first colonel, Gen. Lew Wallace, and General
McGinnis.
Twolarge and influential organizations visited General
Harrison on October 13. From Milwaukee came 400 members
of the Young Men's Republican Club—Paul D. Carpenter,
President; George Russell, Secretary. Among
other prominent members were Samuel Chandler, who organized
the pilgrimage, and Walter W. Pollock. President
Carpenter—son of the late Senator Matt Carpenter—and
C. S. Otjen, a wage-worker, were spokesmen for the
club.
The second and largest delegation was the Chicago German-American
Republican Club—Franz Amberg, President;
F. J. Buswick, Secretary. Accompanying them was
the Excelsior Band and sixteen voices from the Orpheus
Maennerchor Society of Chicago. Among the widely
known members with the club were Hon. Chris. Mamer,
Louis Huck, Peter Hand, Edward Bert, Peter Mahr,
Henry Wulf, City Treasurer Plantz, N. F. Plotke, and
Alderman Tiedemann. As General Harrison entered the
hall the reception exercises were opened by the Maennerchor
Society with the inspiring hymn—"This is the Lord's
own day." Addresses on behalf of the visitors were made
by Hon. Wm. Vocke, Henry Greenbaum, and Andrew
Soehngen; also, General Fred Knefler for the German
Republicans of Indiana, and Hon A. B. Ward, of Dakota.
General Harrison, responding to both visiting delegations,
said:
My Friends of the German-American Republican Club of Chicago,
and of the Club of Milwaukee, and my Home German Friends—I
am very grateful for the kind words you have addressed to me.
The long journey most of you have taken upon this inclement day
to tender your respects to me as the candidate of the Republican
party is very convincing evidence that you believe this civil contest
to be no mock tournament, but a very real and a very decisive
battle for great principles. [Cheers]. My German-American
friends, you are a home-loving people; father, mother, wife, child[173]are words that to you have a very full and a very tender meaning.
[Cheers.] The old father and mother never outlive the veneration
and love of the children in a German household. [Cheers.] You
have come from the fatherland in families, and have set up again
here the old hearth-stones. Out of this love of home there is naturally
born a love of country—it is only the widening of the family
circle—and so our fellow-citizens of German birth and descent did
not fail to respond with alacrity and enthusiasm to the call of their
adopted country when armies were mustered for the defence of the
Union. [Cheers.] The people of Indiana will long remember the
veteran Willich and the Thirty-second Regiment of Indiana Volunteers
(or First German), which he took into the field in 1861. The
repulse by this regiment alone of an attacking force under General
Hindman of 1,100 infantry, a battalion of Texas Rangers, and four
pieces of artillery at Rowlett's Station, in December, 1861, filled
our people with enthusiasm and pride. Again and again the impetuous
Texas horsemen threw themselves with baffled fury upon
that square of brave hearts. No bayonet point was lowered, no
skulker broke the wall of safety that enclosed the flag. [Cheers.]
Your people are industrious, thrifty, and provident. To lay by
something is one of life's earliest lessons in a German home. These
national traits naturally drew your people to the support of the Republican
party when it declared for freedom and free homes in the
Territories. [Cheers.] They secured your adherence to the cause of
the Union in the Civil War. They gave us your help in the long
struggle for resumption and an honest currency, and I do not doubt
that they will now secure our sympathy and help in this great
contest in behalf of our American homes. Your people are largely
wage-earners. They have prospered under a protective tariff, and
will not, I am sure, vote for such a change in our tariff policy as
will cut them off from their wages that margin which they are now able
to lay aside for old age and for their children.
And now a word to my young friends from Wisconsin. You
have come into the possession of the suffrage at an important, if
not critical, time in our public affairs. The Democratic party out
of power was a party of negations. It did not secure its present
lease of power upon the platform or the policies it now supports and
advocates. [Cheers.] The campaign of 1884 was not made upon
the platform of a tariff for revenue only. Our workingmen were
soothed with phrases that implied some regard to their interests,
and Democrats who believed in a protective tariff were admitted
to the party councils and gladly heard in public debate. [Cheers.]
But four years of power have changed all this. Democrats who[174]thought they could be protectionists and still maintain their party
standing have been silenced or their opinions coerced. The issue
is now distinctly made between "protection and something that is
not protection." [Cheers.] The Republican party fearlessly accepts
the issue and places itself upon the side of the American home and
the American workingman. [Cheers.] We invite these young
men who were too young to share the glory of the struggle for our
political unity to a part in this contest for the preservation of our
commercial independence. [Cheers.]
And now to these friends who are the bearers of gifts, one word
of thanks. I especially value this cane as a token of the confidence
and respect of the workingmen of Bay View. [Cheers.] I accept
their gift with gratitude, and would wish you, sir, to bear in return
my most friendly regards and good wishes to every one of
them. I do not need to lean on this beautiful cane, but I do feel
like resting upon the intelligent confidence of the men who sent it.
[Great cheering.] I am glad to know that they have not stumbled
over the simple problem that is presented for their consideration in
this campaign. They know that an increase of importation means
diminished work in American shops. [Cheers.] To my friend
who brings this beautiful specimen of American workmanship,
this commonly accepted token of good luck, I give my thanks.
But we will not trust wholly in this symbol of good luck. The
earnest individual effort of the American people only can make the
result of this contest so decisive, so emphatic, that we shall not for
a generation hear any party contest the principle that our tariff laws
shall adequately protect our own workingmen. [Great cheering.]
Ohio'schief executive, Gov. Joseph B. Foraker, escorted
by the Garfield Club and the Fourteenth Regiment
Band of Columbus, made a pilgrimage to the Republican
Mecca on October 17. The widely known Columbus Glee
Club accompanied them. Among the prominent Republicans
with the delegation were Auditor of State Poe, Adjutant-General
Axline, Hon. Estes G. Rathbone, C. L.
Kurtz, D. W. Brown, C. E. Prior, L. D. Hogerty, J. W.
Firestone, and Ira H. Crum. Escorted by the Columbia[175]Club, the Buckeyes marched to the residence of General
Harrison and were introduced by Governor Foraker.
In response to their greeting General Harrison said:
Gentlemen—It was very appropriate that these representative Ohio
Republicans should accompany to the State of Indiana your distinguished
Governor, whose presence among us to-day is so welcome
to our people. We know his story as the young Ohio volunteer,
the fearless champion of Republican principles in public debate,
and the resolute, courageous, and sagacious executive of the great
State of Ohio. [Applause.] We welcome him and we welcome
you. The fame of this magnificent glee club has preceded them.
We are glad to have an opportunity to hear you.
To these members of the Garfield Club I return my thanks for
this friendly call. You bear an honored name. I look back with
pleasure to the small contribution I was able to make in Indiana
toward securing the electoral vote of this State to that great son
of Ohio, whose tragic death spread gloom and disappointment over
our land. I welcome you as citizens of my native State—a State I
shall always love, because all of my early associations are with it.
In this State, to which I came in my earliest manhood, the Republicans
are as staunch and true, as valorous and resolute, as can be
found in any of the States. You have no advantage of us except
in numbers. We welcome you all as Republicans. [A voice,
"That's what we are!"] We believe that our party now advocates
another great principle that needs to be established—made fast—put
where it shall be beyond assault. It is a principle which has
wrought marvellously in the development of our country since the
war. It has enabled us to handle a great national debt, which our
desponding Democratic friends said would inevitably sink our country
into bankruptcy, so that we are not troubled about getting the
money to pay our maturing bonds, but are getting it faster than
our bonds mature. We need to establish this principle of protection,
the defence of our American workers against the degrading
and unfriendly competition of pauper labor in all other countries
[cheers], so unmistakably that it shall not again be assailed. [A
voice, "Amen!"] Our Democratic friends in previous campaigns
have deceived the people upon this great question by uncertain and
evasive utterances. We are glad to know that now they have
drawn the issue clearly; we accept it. [Applause.] If we shall be
able in this campaign, as I believe we will, to arouse our people to
the importance of maintaining our defences against unfair foreign
competition, we shall administer those who believe in revenue tar[176]iffs
and in progressive free trade a wholesome lesson—one that will
last them a lifetime. [Cheers.]
I had resolutely determined when I came upon these steps not to
make a speech. [Laughter and cries of "Go on!"] I am absolutely
determined to stop now. [Laughter.] I shall be glad to meet the
members of these escort clubs personally in my house. [Three
cheers.]
Later in the day about 100 survivors of the Seventy-ninth
Indiana Regiment, led by their first colonel, General
Fred Knefler, called on General Harrison, and were
presented by their leader in a brief speech, in response to
which General Harrison, speaking from his doorway,
said:
General Knefler and Comrades—I am always deeply touched when
my comrades visit me and offer their kindly greetings. I have no
higher ambition than to stand well in the estimation of my comrades
of the old Union army. I will not speak of any political
topic. These men who stand before me gave the supreme evidence
of their love and devotion to their country. No man could give
more than they offered. The perpetuity of our institutions, the
honor of what General Sherman so felicitously called the "old
glory," demand the country shall always and in every appropriate
way honor and reward the men who kept it a Nation. Whatever
may be said of our great prosperity since the war, and it can
scarcely be exaggerated, if we look for the cause under God, is it
not found in the stout hearts of these men? They have opened this
wide avenue of prosperity and honor in which we are moving. It
will be a shame if our people do not in every way properly recognize
that debt and properly honor the men who gave this supreme
evidence of their devotion to the country and its institutions.
Thanking you again for this visit, I will be glad if you will enter
my house and let me meet you personally.
Forthe fifth time during the campaign the commercial
travellers visited General Harrison, each time with increased
numbers. On Saturday, October 20, under the
supervision of the Commercial Travellers' Republican Club
of Indianapolis—G. C. Webster, President; Ernest Morris,
Secretary—they held one of the largest and most successful
demonstrations of this remarkable campaign. Their
gathering partook of a national character, as large numbers
of "drummers" were present from Massachusetts, New
York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Kentucky, Michigan, Illinois,
Missouri, West Virginia, and Vermont, while every important
city in Indiana sent its complement.
The visitors were received by a local committee of travelling
men, consisting of Fred Schmidt, Chairman; C.
McPherson, Wm. Faucet, Joseph Stubbs, Jeff Cook, Ed.
Allcott, J. C. Norris, M. P. Green, Geo. White, O. W. Morman,
Chas. D. Pearson, Jeff Taylor, Wm. P. Bone, Henry
Ramey, Albert A. Womack, John A. Wright, James W.
Muir, and Frank Brough. It was estimated that 40,000
spectators witnessed their fine parade, a conspicuous feature
of which was a big bull covered with a white cloth on
which was printed the words—"John Bull rides the Democratic
party and we ride John Bull." On his back rode
"Drummer" Dan'l B. Long in an emerald suit, while L.
A. Worch, dressed as Uncle Sam, led the bovine. The
parade was in charge of Chief Marshal J. R. Ross and his
aids. As the column passed their residence it was reviewed
by General and Mrs. Harrison. Later in the day
the visitors were received at Tomlinson Hall. When
General Harrison appeared a great demonstration occurred.
President Webster presided; the speakers were:
John E. Dowell, of Boston; R. T. Dow, of Atlanta; C. L.
Young and John L. Fennimore, of Columbus, Ohio; Chas.[178]P. Banks, of Brooklyn; John L. Griffiths and John C. Wingate,
of Indiana.
My Friends—Four times already, I believe, the commercial travellers
have honored me by calling upon me in large delegations.
You have assembled to-day, not from a single State or locality, but
from many States, upon the invitation of your associates of this
city, to show your intelligent interest in the principles that are involved
in this campaign. [Cheers.] I do not need to repeat what
I have said on former occasions, that I very highly value the respect
and confidence of the commercial travellers of the United
States. [Cheers.] I value it because I believe they give their
adherence to the party whose candidate I am upon an intelligent
investigation and upon an earnest conviction as to what is good for
the country of which they are citizens. [Cheers.] Who should
be able, better than you, to know the commercial and business
needs of our country? You, whose hand is every day upon the
business pulse of the people; you, who travel the country up and
down upon all the swift highways of commerce, and who are
brought in contact with the business men of the country, not only
in our great centres of commerce, but in all the hamlets of the
land. I believe I may say for you that, as a result of this personal
knowledge of our business needs, you have concluded that
the policy for America is the policy of a protective tariff. [Great
cheering.]
There are doubtless here many representatives of great American
manufacturing establishments; and who should know better than
they the prostrating effects upon the industries they represent of
this policy of a revenue tariff, or the not much differing policy of
free trade? [Cheers.] Who should know better than you that if
the discriminating duties now levied, which enable our American
manufacturers to maintain a fair competition with the manufacturers
of other countries, and at the same time to pay a scale of
living wages to the men and women who work for them, is once
broken down, American competition with foreign production becomes
impossible, except by the reduction of the scale of American
wages to the level of the wages paid abroad? [Cheers.] Certainly
you do not need to be told that that shop or mill that has
the smallest pay-roll in proportion to its production will take the
market. [Cheers.] Certainly you do not need to be told that the
wages now enjoyed by our American workmen are greatly larger
and the comforts they enjoy greatly more than those enjoyed by[179]the working people of any other land. [Cheers.] Certainly you
do not need to be told that if the American Government, instead
of patronizing home industries, buys its blankets for the public
service in England there is just that much less work for American
workmen to do. [Cheers.] This is to me the beginning and
the end of the tariff question. Since I was old enough to have
opinions or to utter them, I have held to the doctrine that the true
American policy was that which should maintain not only a living
rate of wages, but one with a margin for savings and comfort for
our workmen. I believe that policy is essential to the prosperity
and possibly to the perpetuity of our Government. [Cheers.] The
two propositions that now stare our working people—and our whole
country—in the face are these: competition with foreign countries,
without adequate discriminating and favoring duties, means lower
wages to our working people; a revenue-only tariff, or progressive
free trade, means larger importations of foreign goods, and that
means less work in America. [Cheers.]
Let our Democratic friends fairly meet these two indisputable
conclusions. How do they do it? [Cries, "They don't; they
can't!"] By endeavoring to prevent and poison the minds of our
working people by utterly false and scandalous campaign stories.
[Enthusiastic cheering.] Let me say in conclusion that I believe
the managers of the Democratic campaign greatly underestimate
the intelligence, the sense of decency, and the love of fair play
that prevail among out people. [Great cheering.] You will
pardon further remark. The evening is drawing on, and many of
you, I am sure, have been made uncomfortable by your muddy
walk through the streets of our city. I cannot omit, however, to
thank my friends from Lafayette for this beautiful floral tribute
which they have placed at my side—an emblem of their profession.
[Floral gripsack.] I accept it gratefully, and very highly appreciate
it as a mark of the confidence and respect of the intelligent
body of my own fellow-citizens of Indiana. [Great cheering.]
Threethousand enthusiastic citizens of Springfield,
Clarke County, Ohio, paid their respects to the Republican
nominee on this date, under the auspices of the Republican
White Hat Brigade, Gen. A. S. Bushnell, Commander; E.
T. Thomes, Vice-Commander; S. J. Wilkerson, Chief of[180]Staff; J. W. R. Cline, Sam'l Hoffman, and J. H. Arbogast,
Aids. The brigade, comprising 2,300 voters, each wearing
a white beaver hat, was divided into three regiments
and accompanied by six excellent bands.
The First Regiment was commanded by Col. J. A.
Dickus, Lieut.-Col. Geo. Lentz, Major Henry Harper. Second
Regiment—Col. Wm. F. Bakhaus, Lieut.-Col. Darwin
Pierce, Major Wm. Robinson. Third Regiment—Col.
H. N. Taylor, Lieut.-Col. Henry Hains, Major P. M.
Hawk. When General Harrison entered the hall every
Buckeye stood on his chair and frantically waved his high
hat in one hand and a flag in the other. General Bushnell
made the presentation address, to which General Harrison
responded as follows:
General Bushnell and my Ohio Friends—The people of Clarke
County owed me a visit. I recall, with great pleasure, two occasions
when I visited your prosperous county and the rich and busy
city of Springfield to speak in behalf of the Republican party and
its candidates. I recall with pleasure the cordiality with which I
was received by your people. [Applause.] I noted then the intelligent
interest manifested by the masses of your people in public
questions, and the enthusiasm with which you rallied to the defense
of Republican principles. [Cheers.] We are glad to welcome
you to Indiana, but regret that this inclement day and our
muddy streets have thrown about your visit so many incidents of
discomfort. I hope that you will not allow these incidents to give
you an unfavorable impression of the beautiful capital city of Indiana.
[Cheers and cries of "We won't!"] Our people are glad to
have this added evidence of the interest which the people of your
State take in the question which the issue of this campaign will
settle. I say settle, because I believe that the question of the life of
protective tariff system is now very distinctly presented. The
enemies of the system have left their ambuscades and taken to the
open field, and we are to have a decisive battle over this question.
[Great cheers.] I believe that never before, in any campaign, has
this question been so fully and ably discussed in the hearing of our
people. [Cheers.] There can be found nowhere in this country a
better illustration of what a great manufacturing centre will do for
the farmer in enhancing the value of his farm and in furnishing a
home market for his products than the city of Springfield. [Cheers.][181]Your city and county—your merchants and farmers—are prosperous,
because you have a great body of well-paid wage-earners in
your great shops and factories. [Cheers.] It is the policy of the
Republican party to multiply, all through our agricultural regions,
such centres of manufacturing industries as Springfield. [Cheers.]
It is conceded that to all our working people, all those who earn
their subsistence by toil, this campaign involves most important
interests. I will not pursue in its details this question. You have
heard it discussed, and most of you, perhaps all, have made up
your conclusions. It is of such importance as, wholly without respect
to the candidate who may by chance represent it, to be
worthy of the intelligent and earnest thought and vigorous effort
of every American citizen. [Cheers.] Let me now only thank you
for this most remarkable evidence of the interest of your people.
We have rarely, if it all, seen here, in this long procession of delegations,
one that equalled that which I see before me now. [Great
cheering.]
At the conclusion of General Harrison's speech General
Bushnell presented him with a highly polished horse-shoe,
manufactured from American steel by S. B. Thomas,
formerly an Englishman. Repeated calls for Mr. Thomas
brought that gentleman out, and there was another prolonged
demonstration as General Harrison cordially
clasped his hand and said:
I accept with pleasure this product of the skill and industry of
one who, out of his own experience, can speak of the benefits of a
protective tariff. One who sought our land because it offered better
wages and better hopes [cheers], and who in his life here has
been able to contrast the condition of working people in England
and in America. [Cheers.]
Duringthe campaign in Indiana several prominent
labor representatives from the East canvassed the State in
advocacy of a protective tariff and the Republican ticket.
Chief among these speakers were Charles H. Litchman, of
Massachusetts, ex-Secretary-General of the Knights of
Labor; John J. Jarrett, Hon. Henry Hall, Eccles Robin[182]son,
and Robert D. Layton, of Pennsylvania, and Jeremiah
Murphy, of New York. These gentlemen, assisted by
John R. Rankin, Marshall C. Woods, and other prominent
Indiana labor leaders, signalized the conclusion of their
campaign work by a notable workingmen's demonstration
on October 25. About 10,000 voters from over the
State participated in the parade, led by Chief Marshal
John R. Rankin, assisted by C. A. Rodney, George E.
Clarke, Wm. R. Mounts, John Baker, Fred Andler, Wm.
H. Baughmier, Geo. E. Perry, Lewis Rathbaust, J. N.
Loop, Wm. Cook, Gustave Schneider, John W. Browning,
A. Raphel, and Michael Bamberger.
General Harrison, with Hon. William McKinley, Jr.,
of Ohio, Senator John C. Spooner, of Wisconsin, and Senator
Henry W. Blair, of New Hampshire, reviewed the
column and later attended a great meeting at Tomlinson
Hall. Many ladies occupied seats on the stage, among
them Mrs. Harrison. When General Harrison appeared,
escorted by Secretary Litchman, the vast audience arose
and cheered frantically for full five minutes.
L. W. McDaniels, a prominent member of the Typographical
Union, presided, and in his address among
other things said:
We are here to repudiate the authority claimed by a few professional
men to speak for the wage-workers of Indiana, to deny the
truthfulness of their statements, and to contradict the assertion
that there is other than the kindliest feeling among the workingmen
of Indiana toward General Harrison. While General Harrison
has never acted the blatant demagogue by making loud professions,
yet we have had evidence of his earnest sympathy and sincere friendship
on more than one occasion, notably his advocacy while in the
Senate of the bill making arbitration the means of settlement of
labor troubles and excluding contract labor from our shores. Also
the bill prohibiting the use of convict labor on Government works,
or the purchasing by the Government of any of the products of convict
labor.
As General Harrison arose to respond there was another
prolonged outbreak; he appeared greatly moved, and de[183]livered
probably his most earnest speech of the campaign.
The demonstrations of approval were very marked, especially
as the General warmed up to his denials of matters
suggested by Chairman McDaniels' remarks. He said:
Mr. McDaniels and my Friends—I have seen, during this busy
summer, many earnest and demonstrative assemblages of my fellow-citizens.
I have listened to many addresses full of the kindest
expressions toward me personally; but, among them all, none have
been more grateful to me, none have more deeply touched me than
this great assemblage of the workingmen of Indiana and these kind
words which have been addressed to me in your behalf. [Great
cheering.] There are reasons why this should be so that will readily
occur to your minds, and to some of which Mr. McDaniels has
alluded. Early in this campaign certain people, claiming to speak
for the laboring men, but really in the employ of the Democratic
campaign managers, promulgated through the newspaper press and
by campaign publications that were not given the open endorsement
of the Democratic campaign managers, but were paid for by
their funds and circulated under their auspices, a number of false
and scandalous stories relating to my attitude toward organized
labor. [Great and prolonged cheering.] The purpose of all these
stories was to poison the minds of the workingmen against the
candidate of the party that stands in this campaign for the principle
of protection to American labor. [Great cheering.] I have
only once, in all the addresses I have made to my fellow-citizens,
alluded to these malicious and scandalous stories, but, now and in
the presence of this great gathering of workingmen, I do pronounce
them to be utterly false. [Tumultuous cheering, waving of flags
and banners, continued for several minutes.] The story that I ever
said that one dollar a day was enough for a workingman, with all
its accompaniments and appendages, is not a perversion of anything
I ever said—it is a false creation. [Enthusiastic cheering.]
I will not follow in detail this long catalogue of campaign slanders,
but will only add that it is equally false that anywhere or at any
time I ever spoke disparagingly of my fellow-citizens of Irish nativity
or descent. Many of them are now enrolling themselves
on the side of protection for American labor—this created the necessity
for the story. [Cheers.] I want to say again that those
who pitch a campaign upon so low a level greatly underestimate
the intelligence, the sense of decency, and the love of fair play
of the American people. [Prolonged cheering.] I said to one
of the first delegations that visited me that this was a contest[184]of great principles; that it would be fought out upon the high
plains of truth, and not in the swamps of slander and defamation.
[Great cheering.] Those who will encamp their army in
the swamp will abandon the victory to the army that is on the
heights. [Cheers.] The Republican party stands to-day as the
bulwark and defense of the wage-earners of this country against a
competition which may reduce American wages even below the
standard they falsely impute to my suggestion. [Cheers.]
There are two very plain facts that I have often stated—and
others more forcibly than I—that it seems to me should be conclusive
with the wage-earners of America. The policy of the Democratic
party—the revision of our tariff laws as indicated by the
Democratic party, a revenue-only tariff, or progressive free trade—means
a vast and sudden increase of importations. Is there a
man here so dull as not to know that this means diminished work
in our American shops? [Cheers and cries of "No, no!"] If some
one says that labor is not fully employed now, do you hope it will
be more fully employed when you have transferred one-third of the
work done in our shops to foreign workshops? [Cries of "No,
no!"] If some one tells me that labor is not sufficiently rewarded
here, does he hope to have its rewards increased by striking down
our protective duties and compelling our workmen to compete with
the underpaid labor of Europe? [Cheers.]
I conclude by saying that less work and lower wages are the inevitable
result of the triumph of the principles advocated by the
Democratic party. [Cheers.]
And now you will excuse further speech from me. [Cries of
"Go on!"] There are here several distinguished advocates of Republican
principles. You will be permitted to hear now, I understand,
from the Hon. Henry W. Blair, a Senator from the State of
New Hampshire, who has been so long at the head of the Committee
on Education and Labor in the United States Senate; and to-night
in this hall you will be permitted to listen to the Hon. William
McKinley, Jr., of Ohio. Now will you allow me again to
thank you out of a full heart for this cordial tender of your confidence
and respect. I felt that in return I could not omit to say
what I have said, not because you needed to be assured of my
friendliness, but in recognition of a confidence that falsehood and
slander could not shake. I have not thought it in good taste to
make many personal references in my public addresses. If any one
thinks it necessary that a comparison should be instituted between
the candidates of the two great parties as to their friendliness to
the reforms demanded by organized labor, I must leave others to
make it. [Great cheering.]
Therailroad men of Indiana held their last gathering
of the great campaign on Saturday night, October 27.
Its estimated 7,000 voters participated in their parade
under Chief Marshal A. D. Shaw and Chief of Staff Geo.
Butler. The Porter Flambeau Club, the Harrison Zouaves,
and 1,000 members of the Indianapolis Railroad
Club—each man carrying a colored lantern—escorted the
visiting organizations. General Harrison and the Hon.
W. R. McKeen, of Terre Haute, reviewed the brilliant procession
from the balcony of the New-Denison and then
repaired to Tomlinson Hall, where the General's arrival
was signalized by an extraordinary demonstration. Chairman
Finch introduced Hon. Mathew O'Doherty, of Louisville,
and A. F. Potts, of Indianapolis, who addressed the
meeting later in the evening.
General Harrison was the first speaker. He said:
My Friends of the Railroad Republican Clubs—Before your committee
waited upon me to request my presence here to-night I had
resolutely determined that I would not make another address in
this campaign. But when they presented their suggestion that I
should meet my railroad friends, I said to them—the kindness
which has been shown to me from an early period in this campaign
by the railroad men of Indiana has been so conspicuous and
so cordial that I could not deny any request that is presented in
their name. [Cheers.] And so I am here to-night, not to speak
upon any political topic, but only to express, if I can find words
to express, the deep and earnest thankfulness I feel toward you who
have shown so much kindness and confidence in me. [Cheers.]
Very early in this campaign there were those who sought to make
a breach between you and me. You did not wait for my answer,
but you made answer yourselves. [Cheers.] And time and again
you have witnessed your faith that my disposition toward you and
toward the men who toil for their living was one of friendliness,
and the principles which I represented and have always advocated
were those that promoted the true interests of the workingmen of
America. [Cheers.] I have always believed and held that the
prosperity of our country, that the supremacy of its institutions[186]and its social order all depended upon our pursuing such a policy
in our legislation that we should have in America a class of workingmen
earning adequate wages that would bring comfort into
their homes and maintain hope in their hearts. [Cheers.] A despairing
man, a man out of whose horizon the star of hope has
gone, is not a safe citizen in a republic. [Cheers.] Therefore I
would preserve against unfriendly competition the highest possible
scale of wages to our working people. [Great cheering.]
I know the stout hearts, I know the intelligence, I know the enterprise
of those men who man our railway trains and push them
at lightning speed through darkness and storm. I know the skill
and faithfulness of those who sit at the telegraph instrument,
holding in their watchfulness the safety of those who journey. I
know the fidelity of the men who conduct this business, which has
grown to be a system as fine and perfect as the finest product of
mechanical art. [Cheers.] And so I value to-night this evidence
of your cordial respect; and let me say that whatever may happen
to me in the future, whether I shall remain a citizen of Indianapolis
to bear with you the duties and responsibilities of private citizenship,
or shall be honored with office, I shall never forget this
great demonstration of your friendliness. [Prolonged cheers.]
General Harrison's unequalled campaign of speech-making
closed on the afternoon of this day with a visit from
80 young lady students of Oxford, Ohio, College. They
were organized as the "Carrie Harrison Club of Oxford,"
and their visit was in honor of that distinguished lady,
who, 36 years before, as Miss Carrie Scott, graduated from
this same institution, of which her venerable father, the
Rev. Dr. John W. Scott, was the first President. The
students were accompanied by President and Mrs. Faye
Walker and Professors Wilson, Fisher, and Dean.
Miss Nellie F. Deem, of Union City, Indiana, the youngest
teacher in the college, addressed Mrs. Harrison on behalf
of the school. General Harrison responded briefly in
a happy little speech, in which he expressed the pleasure
felt by both over the visit of the Oxford young ladies. He
spoke of their mutual memories of the school and the happy
days spent in its charming surroundings, and said they
both rejoiced in the prosperity of the college, noted as it[187]was for its scholarship and the Christian training of its
pupils. In conclusion he thanked them for their visit, and
assured them that the kind words spoken of Mrs. Harrison
and himself were fully appreciated and would be long remembered.
Thelast day of the great campaign brought a delegation
of nearly 100 ladies and gentlemen from Terre Haute,
Indiana, who came to deliver a handsome present of a
miniature silver-mounted plush chair, designated the
"Presidential Chair." They also brought Mrs. Harrison
a valuable flower-stand, voted to her at Germania Fair as
the most popular lady. In returning thanks for these
gifts and their visit General Harrison said:
Captain Ebel and Gentlemen—I am very much obliged to you for
this friendly visit. It comes in the nature of a surprise, for it was
only a little while ago that I was advised of your intention. I
thank you for this gift. It is intended, I suppose, as a type, and a
type of a very useful article, one that does not come amiss in any
station of life. Only those who for months found their only convenient
seat upon a log or a cracker-box know what infinite luxury
there was in even a common Windsor chair. We are glad to welcome
you to our home, and will be glad to greet personally the
members of this club and those ladies who accompany you.
The General then, in behalf of Mrs. Harrison, thanked
the ladies for their present to her.
Itis not the purpose of this work to more than chronicle
the result of the great presidential campaign of 1888. The
election fell on November 6. Twenty States gave the Republican
candidate 233 votes in the Electoral College, and
18 States cast 168 votes for Mr. Cleveland, the Democratic
candidate. The total vote cast in the 38 States, for the 7
electoral tickets, was 11,386,632, of which General Harrison
received 5,440,551. The Republican electoral ticket
was chosen in Indiana by a plurality of 2,392 votes.
When it became evident that General Harrison had won
the election a demonstration without parallel was inaugurated
at Indianapolis and continued three days. The exciting
street parades and gatherings witnessed at the time of
his nomination were re-enacted with tenfold energy and
enthusiasm. Delegations came from all points in the State
to offer their congratulations, and 10,000 telegrams and
letters from distinguished countrymen poured in upon the
successful candidate. From an early hour on the morning
of the 7th, for days thereafter, the streets of Indianapolis
were thronged with enthusiastic visitors.
The first delegation to call upon General Harrison after
his election came from Hendricks County, numbering 400
veterans and others, headed by Ira J. Chase, the newly
elected Lieutenant-Governor, Rev. J. H. Hull, and John C.
Ochiltree. General Harrison made no formal response to
their congratulatory address. On November 9 a delegation
from the Commercial Club of Cincinnati arrived, and
at night the saw-makers of Indianapolis—about 100 in
number—bedecked in red from head to foot, marched with
glaring torches to the residence of General Harrison, and
after a serenade called upon him for a speech.
Coming out on the steps the General said:
The time for speech-making is over. The debate is closed, and I
believe the polls are closed. ["Right you are!"] I will only thank[189]you for your call to-night and for that friendly spirit which you
have shown to me during the campaign.
The State of New York gave Harrison (Rep.) over
Cleveland (Dem.) a plurality of 13,074 votes; but for Governor—at
the same election—the State gave David B. Hill
(Dem.) a plurality of 19,171 over Warner Miller (Rep.).
These opposite results called forth the following famous
telegram from the President-elect:
I am greatly grieved at your defeat. If the intrepid leader fell
outside the breastworks, the column, inspired by his courage, went
on to victory.
Theinstallation of officers by George H. Thomas Post,
G. A. R., on the night of New Year's Day, '89, was attended
by General Harrison, who for many years had been
an active member of this post. Many comrades from other
posts in the city were present. The President-elect was
escorted by Col. Irvin Robbins, who was commander of the
Democratic regiment during the recent campaign, and Col.
George W. Spahr, who commanded a Republican regiment.
He was received with full honors by the retiring
commander, James B. Black, who presented him to the
post.
In response to their enthusiastic greeting, General Harrison—speaking
in public for the first time since his election—in
substance said:
Commander and Comrades—It affords me pleasure to meet with
you again on this occasion. When I left the army so many years
ago I little expected to enter it again, as I soon will. Among the
many honors which may be placed on me in the future there will
be none, I can assure you, that I will esteem more highly than my
membership in this order, instituted by those who sustained the[190]flag of Washington, the flag of Perry, the flag that was baptized in
the blood of the Revolution and again in the second conflict with
the mother country; that floated over the halls of the Montezumas,
and was sustained in other wars, and which you made possible to
wave over every foot of our beloved country. I esteem it my greatest
honor that I bore even an humble part with you and all the
comrades of the Grand Army in bringing about this most desirable
result. I wish to say before parting with you, if I may never look
upon your faces collectively again, that the parting request I would
make of you would be that each of you, without regard to party
(and I believe I can say this without offence to any comrade of the
Grand Army), stand shoulder to shoulder, as we did during the
war, to preserve a free and honest ballot. There is nothing, I can
assure you, that will do more to preserve and maintain our institutions
than this. Our country, separated as it is by the great
watery waste, need have no fear of interference by foreign countries
with its institutions; nor do we desire in any way to interfere
with them. Nor, indeed, is there any fear of another civil
war. The only fear we should now have is a corruption or suppression
of the free ballot, and your utmost exertions should be to
prevent it.
In concluding, he called for the choicest blessings upon
his comrades, saying: "To each one, God bless you and
your families; God keep you and protect you in your
homes!"
President-electand Mrs. Harrison bade their friends
and neighbors good-by and left Indiana on February 25
for Washington. Governor Hovey, Mayor Denny, and
several thousand citizens escorted them from their residence
to the railroad station. In the escort column were 1,000
G. A. R. veterans from Geo. H. Thomas and other posts,
commanded by H. C. Allen. Conspicuous in their ranks
was that distinguished soldier-diplomat, General Lew
Wallace. The members of the Indiana Legislature saluted[191]and joined thecortégeas it passed through Pennsylvania
Street.
General Harrison's carriage was completely enclosed
within a hollow square composed of 32 prominent citizens—a
body-guard of honor. The entire population of the city
turned out to witness the eventful departure, while numerous
delegations were present from Danville, Richmond,
Crawfordsville, Terre Haute, and other cities. A great
throng greeted the distinguished travellers at the Union
Station. From the rear platform of the special inaugural
train Governor Hovey presented the President-elect amid
tumultuous cheering.
General Harrison was greatly affected by the scene and
the occasion. Speaking with emotion he said:
My Good Friends and Neighbors—I cannot trust myself to put in
words what I feel at this time. Every kind thought that is in
your minds and every good wish that is in your hearts for me finds
its responsive wish and thought in my mind and heart for each
of you. I love this city. It has been my own cherished home.
Twice before I have left it to discharge public duties and returned
to it with gladness, as I hope to do again. It is a city on whose
streets the pompous displays of wealth are not seen. It is full of
pleasant homes, and in these homes there is an unusual store of
contentment. The memory of your favor and kindness will abide
with me, and my strong desire to hold your respect and confidence
will strengthen me in the discharge of my new and responsible
duties. Let me say farewell to all my Indiana friends. For the
public honors that have come to me I am their grateful debtor.
They have made the debt so large that I can never discharge it.
There is a great sense of loneliness in the discharge of high public
duties. The moment of decision is one of isolation. But there is
One whose help comes even into the quiet chamber of judgment,
and to His wise and unfailing guidance will I look for direction
and safety. My family unite with me in grateful thanks for this
cordial good-by, and with me wish that these years of separation
may be full of peace and happiness for each of you. [Great
cheering.]
Asthe inaugural train sped along it was greeted at
every station by thousands of cheering spectators. The
first stop was at Knightstown, where the Soldiers' Orphans'
Home is located. In response to their calls General Harrison
said:
My Friends—I thank you for this cordial gathering and demonstration.
I can detain the train but a moment, and I only stopped
at the request of the Superintendent of the Soldiers' Orphans' Home,
so that the children might have an opportunity to see me and that
I might wish them the bright and prosperous future which the sacrifices
of their fathers won for them. I bid you farewell.
Thecity of Richmond was reached at 5 o'clock in the
afternoon, where several thousand people greeted the travellers.
General Harrison said:
My Friends—I have so long had my home among you that I cannot
but feel a sense of regret in leaving the soil of Indiana. I go
with a deep sense of inadequacy, but I am sure you will be patient
with my mistakes, and that you will all give me your help as citizens
[cheers and cries of "We will!"] in my efforts to promote the
best interests of our people and the honor of the Nation we love.
I thank you for this cordial greeting. [Cheers.]
AtPiqua the President-elect and his party were welcomed
by Ohio's chief executive, Gov. J. B. Foraker, and
his wife; and, notwithstanding the hour, some 20,000 people
greeted their arrival at Columbus. The roar of cannon
rendered speaking difficult. Governor Foraker presented
General Harrison, who here made his last public speech
before being inaugurated as President. He said:
My Fellow-citizens—I thank you for the wonderful demonstration
of this evening. In these evidences of the good will of my friends
I receive a new stimulus as I enter upon the duties of the great
office to which I have been chosen. I beg to thank you again for
your interest. [Great cheering.]
General Harrisonand his family, accompanied by
Hon. James N. Huston, Hon. W. H. H. Miller, Mr. E. W.
Halford, Mr. E. F. Tibbott and family, Miss Sanger, and
the representatives of the press, arrived in Washington
on the evening of February 26. The President-elect was
met by Col. A. T. Britton, Geo. B. Williams, Gen. H. V.
Boynton, J. K. McCammon, Gen. Daniel Macauley, and
other members of the Inaugural Committee, and escorted
to the Arlington Hotel.
The inaugural celebration was conducted by several
hundred residents of Washington, acting through committees.
The Executive Committee, having supervising
charge of all matters pertaining to the celebration, comprised
the following prominent Washingtonians: Alex.
T. Britton, Chairman; Myron M. Parker, Vice-Chairman;
Brainerd H. Warner, Treasurer; Henry L. Swords, Secretary;
Elmon A. Adams, Joseph K. McCammon, James E.
Bell, James G. Berret, Robert Boyd, Henry V. Boynton,
Almon M. Clapp, A. H. S. Davis, Frederick Douglass,
John Joy Edson, Lawrence Gardner, George Gibson,
Charles C. Glover, Stilson Hutchins, E. Kurtz Johnson,
George E. Lemon, John McElroy, Geo. A. McIlhenny,
Crosby S. Noyes, Albert Ordway, Charles B. Purvis,
Melancthon L. Ruth, Thomas Somerville, Orren G. Staples,
John W. Thompson, Henry A. Willard, George B. Williams,
Louis D. Wine, Simon Wolf, Levi P. Wright, and
Hallett Kilbourn. General James Beaver, Governor of
Pennsylvania, was Chief Marshal of the day, and with a[194]brilliant staff led the great column in its march to and from
the Capitol. The veterans of the Seventieth Indiana Regiment
were accorded the post of honor on the route to the
Capitol, and on conclusion of the ceremonies escorted their
old commander to the White House. Chief-Justice Fuller
administered the oath of office.
President Harrison delivered his inaugural address from
the terrace of the Capitol in the presence of a vast concourse
and during a rainfall.
There is no constitutional or legal requirement that the President
shall take the oath of office in the presence of the people. But
there is so manifest an appropriateness in the public induction to
office of the chief executive officer of the Nation that from the beginning
of the Government the people, to whose service the official
oath consecrates the officer, have been called to witness the solemn
ceremonial. The oath taken in the presence of the people becomes
a mutual covenant; the officer covenants to serve the whole body
of the people by a faithful execution of the laws, so that they may
be the unfailing defence and security of those who respect and observe
them, and that neither wealth and station nor the power of
combinations shall be able to evade their just penalties or to wrest
them from a beneficent public purpose to serve the ends of cruelty
or selfishness. My promise is spoken; yours unspoken, but not the
less real and solemn. The people of every State have here their
representatives. Surely I do not misinterpret the spirit of the occasion
when I assume that the whole body of the people covenant
with me and with each other to-day to support and defend the Constitution
and the Union of the States, to yield willing obedience
to all the laws and each to every other citizen his equal civil and
political rights. Entering thus solemnly in covenant with each
other, we may reverently invoke and confidently expect the favor
and help of Almighty God, that He will give to me wisdom,
strength, and fidelity, and to our people a spirit of fraternity and
a love of righteousness and peace.
This occasion derives peculiar interest from the fact that the
presidential term which begins this day is the twenty-sixth under
our Constitution. The first inauguration of President Washington
took place in New York, where Congress was then sitting, on April
30, 1789, having been deferred by reason of delays attending the[195]organization of the Congress and the canvass of the electoral vote.
Our people have already worthily observed the centennials of the
Declaration of Independence, of the battle of Yorktown, and of the
adoption of the Constitution, and will shortly celebrate in New
York the institution of the second great department of our constitutional
scheme of government. When the centennial of the institution
of the judicial department by the organization of the Supreme
Court shall have been suitably observed, as I trust it will
be, our Nation will have fully entered its second century.
I will not attempt to note the marvellous and, in great part,
happy contrasts between our country as it steps over the threshold
into its second century of organized existence under the Constitution,
and that weak but wisely ordered young Nation that looked
undauntedly down the first century, when all its years stretched
out before it.
Our people will not fail at this time to recall the incidents which
accompanied the institution of government under the Constitution,
or to find inspiration and guidance in the teachings and example
of Washington and his great associates, and hope and courage in
the contrast which thirty-eight populous and prosperous States
offer to the thirteen States, weak in everything except courage and
the love of liberty, that then fringed our Atlantic seaboard.
The Territory of Dakota has now a population greater than any
of the original States—except Virginia—and greater than the aggregate
of five of the smaller States in 1790. The centre of population
when our national capital was located was east of Baltimore,
and it was argued by many well-informed persons that it
would move eastward rather than westward. Yet in 1880 it was
found to be near Cincinnati, and the new census, about to be taken,
will show another stride to the westward. That which was the
body has come to be only the rich fringe of the nation's robe. But
our growth has not been limited to territory, population, and aggregate
wealth, marvellous as it has been in each of those directions.
The masses of our people are better fed, clothed, and housed
than their fathers were. The facilities for popular education have
been vastly enlarged and more generally diffused. The virtues of
courage and patriotism have given recent proof of their continued
presence and increasing power in the hearts and over the lives of
our people. The influences of religion have been multiplied and
strengthened. The sweet offices of charity have greatly increased.
The virtue of temperance is held in higher estimation. We have
not attained an ideal condition. Not all of our people are happy
and prosperous; not all of them are virtuous and law-abiding.[196]But, on the whole, the opportunities offered to the individual to
secure the comforts of life are better than are found elsewhere, and
largely better than they were here 100 years ago.
The surrender of a large measure of sovereignty to the general
Government, effected by the adoption of the Constitution, was not
accomplished until the suggestions of reason were strongly re-enforced
by the more imperative voice of experience. The divergent
interests of peace speedily demanded a "more perfect union." The
merchant, the ship-master, and the manufacturer discovered and
disclosed to our statesmen and to the people that commercial emancipation
must be added to the political freedom which had been so
bravely won. The commercial policy of the mother country had
not relaxed any of its hard and oppressive features. To hold in
check the development of our commercial marine, to prevent or
retard the establishment and growth of manufactures in the States,
and so to secure the American market for their shops and the carrying
trade for their ships, was the policy of European statesmen,
and was pursued with the most selfish vigor. Petitions poured in
upon Congress urging the imposition of discriminating duties that
should encourage the production of needed things at home. The
patriotism of the people, which no longer found a field of exercise
in war, was energetically directed to the duty of equipping the
young republic for the defence of its independence by making its
people self-dependent. Societies for the promotion of home manufactures
and for encouraging the use of domestics in the dress of
the people were organized in many of the States. The revival at
the end of the century of the same patriotic interest in the preservation
and development of domestic industries and the defence of
our working people against injurious foreign competition is an
incident worthy of attention.
It is not a departure, but a return, that we have witnessed. The
protective policy had then its opponents. The argument was made,
as now, that its benefits inured to particular classes or sections.
If the question became in any sense, or at any time, sectional, it
was only because slavery existed in some of the States. But for
this there was no reason why the cotton-producing States should
not have led or walked abreast with the New England States in the
production of cotton fabrics. There was this reason only why the
States that divide with Pennsylvania the mineral treasures of the
great southeastern and central mountain ranges should have been
so tardy in bringing to the smelting furnace and the mill the coal
and iron from their near opposing hillsides. Mill-fires were lighted
at the funeral pile of slavery. The emancipation proclamation was[197]heard in the depths of the earth as well as in the sky—men were
made free and material things became our better servants.
The sectional element has happily been eliminated from the tariff
discussion. We have no longer States that are necessarily only
planting States. None are excluded from achieving that diversification
of pursuit among the people which brings wealth and contentment.
The cotton plantation will not be less valuable when
the product is spun in the country town by operatives whose necessities
call for diversified crops and create a home demand for
garden and agricultural products. Every new mine, furnace, and
factory is an extension of the productive capacity of the State
more real and valuable than added territory.
Shall the prejudices and paralysis of slavery continue to hang
upon the skirts of progress? How long will those who rejoice that
slavery no longer exists cherish or tolerate the incapacities it puts
upon their communities? I look hopefully to the continuance of
our protective system and to the consequent development of manufacturing
and mining enterprises in the States hitherto wholly
given to agriculture as a potent influence in the perfect unification
of our people. The men who have invested their capital in these
enterprises, the farmers who have felt the benefit of their neighborhood,
and the men who work in shop or field will not fail to find
and to defend a community of interest. Is it not quite possible
that the farmers and the promoters of the great mining and manufacturing
enterprises which have recently been established in the
South may yet find that the free ballot of the workingman, without
distinction of race, is needed for their defence as well as for
his own? I do not doubt that if these men in the South who now
accept the tariff views of Clay and the constitutional expositions
of Webster would courageously avow and defend their real convictions
they would not find it difficult, by friendly instruction and
co-operation, to make the black man their efficient and safe ally,
not only in establishing correct principles in our national Administration,
but in preserving for their local communities the benefits
of social order and economical and honest government. At least
until the good offices of kindness and education have been fairly
tried the contrary conclusion cannot be plausibly urged.
I have altogether rejected the suggestion of a special executive
policy for any section of our country. It is the duty of the Executive
to administer and enforce in the methods and by the instrumentalities
pointed out and provided by the Constitution all the
laws enacted by Congress. These laws are general, and their administration
should be uniform and equal. As a citizen may not[198]elect what laws he will obey, neither may the Executive elect
which he will enforce. The duty to obey and execute embraces the
Constitution in its entirety and the whole code of laws enacted
under it. The evil example of permitting individuals, corporations,
or communities to nullify the laws because they cross some selfish
or local interests or prejudices is full of danger, not only to the
Nation at large, but much more to those who use this pernicious
expedient to escape their just obligations or to obtain an unjust advantage
over others. They will presently themselves be compelled
to appeal to the law for protection, and those who would use the
law as a defence must not deny that use of it to others.
If our great corporations would more scrupulously observe their
legal obligations and duties they would have less cause to complain
of the unlawful limitations of their rights or of violent interference
with their operations. The community that by concert, open or
secret, among its citizens denies to a portion of its members their
plain rights under the law has severed the only safe bond of social
order and prosperity. The evil works, from a bad centre, both
ways. It demoralizes those who practise it, and destroys the faith
of those who suffer by it in the efficiency of the law as a safe protector.
The man in whose breast that faith has been darkened is
naturally the subject of dangerous and uncanny suggestions. Those
who use unlawful methods, if moved by no higher motive than the
selfishness that prompts them, may well stop and inquire what is
to be the end of this. An unlawful expedient cannot become a
permanent condition of government. If the educated and influential
classes in a community either practise or connive at the systematic
violation of laws that seem to them to cross their convenience,
what can they expect when the lesson that convenience or a
supposed class interest is a sufficient cause for lawlessness has been
well learned by the ignorant classes? A community where law is
the rule of conduct, and where courts, not mobs, execute its penalties,
is the only attractive field for business investments and
honest labor.
Our naturalization laws should be so amended as to make the inquiry
into the character and good disposition of persons applying
for citizenship more careful and searching. Our existing laws
have been in their administration an unimpressive and often an
unintelligible form. We accept the man as a citizen without any
knowledge of his fitness, and he assumes the duties of citizenship
without any knowledge as to what they are. The privileges of
American citizenship are so great and its duties so grave that we
may well insist upon a good knowledge of every person applying for[199]citizenship and a good knowledge by him of our institutions. We
should not cease to be hospitable to immigration, but we should
cease to be careless as to the character of it. There are men of all
races, even the best, whose coming is necessarily a burden upon
our public revenues or a threat to social order. These should be
identified and excluded.
We have happily maintained a policy of avoiding all interference
with European affairs. We have been only interested spectators
of their contentions in diplomacy and in war, ready to use our
friendly offices to promote peace, but never obtruding our advice
and never attempting unfairly to coin the distresses of other powers
into commercial advantage to ourselves. We have a just right to
expect that our European policy will be the American policy of
European courts.
It is so manifestly incompatible with those precautions for our
peace and safety, which all the great powers habitually observe and
enforce in matters affecting them, that a shorter water-way between
our eastern and western seaboards should be dominated by
any European Government, that we may confidently expect that
such a purpose will not be entertained by any friendly power. We
shall in the future, as in the past, use every endeavor to maintain
and enlarge our friendly relations with all the great powers, but
they will not expect us to look kindly upon any project that would
leave us subject to the dangers of a hostile observation or environment.
We have not sought to dominate or to absorb any of our weaker
neighbors, but rather to aid and encourage them to establish free
and stable governments, resting upon the consent of their own people.
We have a clear right to expect, therefore, that no European
Government will seek to establish colonial dependencies upon the
territory of these independent American States. That which a
sense of justice restrains us from seeking they may be reasonably
expected willingly to forego.
It must not be assumed, however, that our interests are so exclusively
American that our entire inattention to any events that may
transpire elsewhere can be taken for granted. Our citizens domiciled
for purposes of trade in all countries and in many of the
islands of the sea demand and will have our adequate care in their
personal and commercial rights. The necessities of our navy require
convenient coaling stations and dock and harbor privileges.
These and other trading privileges we will feel free to obtain only
by means that do not in any degree partake of coercion, however
feeble the Government from which we ask such concessions. But[200]having fairly obtained them by methods and for purposes entirely
consistent with the most friendly disposition toward all other powers,
our consent will be necessary to any modification or impairment
of the concession.
We shall neither fail to respect the flag of any friendly nation or
the just rights of its citizens, nor to exact the like treatment for
our own. Calmness, justice, and consideration should characterize
our diplomacy. The offices of an intelligent diplomacy or of
friendly arbitration, in proper cases, should be adequate to the
peaceful adjustment of all international difficulties. By such
methods we will make our contribution to the world's peace, which
no nation values more highly, and avoid the opprobrium which
must fall upon the nation that ruthlessly breaks it.
The duty devolved by law upon the President to nominate and,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint all
public officers whose appointment is not otherwise provided for in
the Constitution or by act of Congress has become very burdensome,
and its wise and efficient discharge full of difficulty. The civil
list is so large that a personal knowledge of any large number of
the applicants is impossible. The President must rely upon the
representations of others, and these are often made inconsiderately
and without any just sense of responsibility.
I have a right, I think, to insist that those who volunteer or are
invited to give advice as to appointments shall exercise consideration
and fidelity. A high sense of duty and an ambition to improve
the service should characterize all public officers. There are
many ways in which the convenience and comfort of those who
have business with our public officers may be promoted by a
thoughtful and obliging officer, and I shall expect those whom I
may appoint to justify their selection by a conspicuous efficiency
in the discharge of their duties. Honorable party service will certainly
not be esteemed by me a disqualification for public office;
but it will in no case be allowed to serve as a shield for official
negligence, incompetency, or delinquency. It is entirely creditable
to seek public office by proper methods and with proper motives,
and all applications will be treated with consideration; but
I shall need, and the heads of departments will need, time for inquiry
and deliberation. Persistent importunity will not, therefore,
be the best support of an application for office.
Heads of departments, bureaus, and all other public officers having
any duty connected therewith, will be expected to enforce the
Civil Service law fully and without evasion. Beyond this obvious
duty I hope to do something more to advance the reform of the[201]civil service. The ideal, or even my own ideal, I shall probably
not attain. Retrospect will be a safer basis of judgment than promises.
We shall not, however, I am sure, be able to put our civil
service upon a non-partisan basis until we have secured an incumbency
that fair minded men of the opposition will approve for impartiality
and integrity. As the number of such in the civil list
is increased removals from office will diminish.
While a treasury surplus is not the greatest evil, it is a serious
evil. Our revenue should be ample to meet the ordinary annual
demands upon our treasury, with a sufficient margin for those extraordinary
but scarcely less imperative demands which arise now
and then. Expenditure should always be made with economy, and
only upon public necessity. Wastefulness, profligacy, or favoritism
in public expenditures is criminal; but there is nothing in the
condition of our country or of our people to suggest that anything
presently necessary to the public prosperity, security, or honor
should be unduly postponed. It will be the duty of Congress wisely
to forecast and estimate these extraordinary demands, and, having
added them to our ordinary expenditures, to so adjust our revenue
laws that no considerable annual surplus will remain. We will
fortunately be able to apply to the redemption of the public debt
any small and unforeseen excess of revenue. This is better than to
reduce our income below our necessary expenditures with the resulting
choice between another change of our revenue laws and an
increase of the public debt. It is quite possible, I am sure, to
effect the necessary reduction in our revenues without breaking
down our protective tariff or seriously injuring any domestic industry.
The construction of a sufficient number of modern war ships and
of their necessary armament should progress as rapidly as is consistent
with care and perfection in plans and workmanship. The
spirit, courage, and skill of our naval officers and seamen have
many times in our history given to weak ships and inefficient guns
a rating greatly beyond that of the naval list. That they will again
do so upon occasion I do not doubt; but they ought not, by premeditation
or neglect, to be left to the risks and exigencies of an
unequal combat.
We should encourage the establishment of American steamship
lines. The exchanges of commerce demand stated, reliable, and
rapid means of communication, and until these are provided the
development of our trade with the States lying south of us is impossible.
Our pension law should give more adequate and discriminating[202]relief to the Union soldiers and sailors and to their widows and
orphans. Such occasions as this should remind us that we owe
everything to their valor and sacrifice.
It is a subject of congratulation that there is a near prospect of
the admission into the Union of the Dakotas and Montana and
Washington Territories. This act of justice has been unreasonably
delayed in the case of some of them. The people who have settled
those Territories are intelligent, enterprising, and patriotic, and
the accession of these new States will add strength to the Nation.
It is due to the settlers in the Territories who have availed themselves
of the invitations of our land laws to make homes upon the
public domain that their titles should be speedily adjusted and
their honest entries confirmed by patent.
It is very gratifying to observe the general interest now being
manifested in the reform of our election laws. Those who have
been for years calling attention to the pressing necessity of throwing
about the ballot-box and about the elector further safeguards,
in order that our elections might not only be free and pure, but
might clearly appear to be so, will welcome the accession of any
who did not so soon discover the need of reform. The national
Congress has not as yet taken control of elections in that case over
which the Constitution gives it jurisdiction, but has accepted and
adopted the election laws of the several States, provided penalties
for their violation and a method of supervision. Only the inefficiency
of the State laws or an unfair partisan administration of
them could suggest a departure from this policy. It was clearly,
however, in the contemplation of the framers of the Constitution
that such an exigency might arise, and provision was wisely made
for it. No power vested in Congress or in the Executive to secure
or perpetuate it should remain unused upon occasion.
The people of all the Congressional districts have an equal interest
that the election in each shall truly express the views and wishes
of a majority of the qualified electors residing within it. The results
of such elections are not local, and the insistence of electors
residing in other districts that they shall be pure and free does not
savor at all of impertinence. If in any of the States the public
security is thought to be threatened by ignorance among the electors,
the obvious remedy is education. The sympathy and help of
our people will not be withheld from any community struggling
with special embarrassments or difficulties connected with the suffrage,
if the remedies proposed proceed upon lawful lines and are
promoted by just and honorable methods. How shall those who
practise election frauds recover that respect for the sanctity of the[203]ballot which is the first condition and obligation of good citizenship?
The man who has come to regard the ballot-box as a juggler's
hat has renounced his allegiance.
Let us exalt patriotism and moderate our party contentions. Let
those who would die for the flag on the field of battle give a better
proof of their patriotism and a higher glory to their country by
promoting fraternity and justice. A party success that is achieved
by unfair methods or by practices that partake of revolution is
hurtful and evanescent, even from a party standpoint. We should
hold our differing opinions in mutual respect, and, having submitted
them to the arbitrament of the ballot, should accept an adverse
judgment with the same respect that we would have demanded of
our opponents if the decision had been in our favor.
No other people have a government more worthy of their respect
and love, or a land so magnificent in extent, so pleasant to look
upon, and so full of generous suggestion to enterprise and labor.
God has placed upon our head a diadem, and has laid at our feet
power and wealth beyond definition or calculation. But we must
not forget that we take these gifts upon the condition that justice
and mercy shall hold the reins of power, and that the upward avenues
of hope shall be free to all the people.
I do not mistrust the future. Dangers have been in frequent ambush
along our path, but we have uncovered and vanquished them
all. Passion has swept some of our communities, but only to give
us a new demonstration that the great body of our people are stable,
patriotic, and law-abiding. No political party can long pursue advantage
at the expense of public honor or by rude and indecent
methods, without protest and fatal disaffection in its own body.
The peaceful agencies of commerce are more fully revealing the
necessary unity of all our communities, and the increasing intercourse
of our people is promoting mutual respect. We shall find
unalloyed pleasure in the revelation which our next census will
make of the swift development of the great resources of some of the
States. Each State will bring its generous contribution to the great
aggregate of the Nation's increase. And when the harvest from
the fields, the cattle from the hills, and the ores of the earth shall
have been weighed, counted, and valued, we will turn from them
all to crown with the highest honor the State that has most promoted
education, virtue, justice, and patriotism among the people.
Thecelebration, at the city of New York, of the one
hundredth anniversary of the inauguration of George
Washington as first President of the United States was
more than national in its scope and influence. The people
of the entire continent manifested a gratifying interest in
it, and no event in our history has been commemorated
with greater success. The occasion called together more
than two million people within the gateways of the great
metropolis, many of them our most distinguished and representative
citizens. The celebration was conducted under
the auspices of one hundred prominent citizens, organized
as a general committee, of which the Hon. Hamilton
Fish was President; Mayor Hugh J. Grant, Chairman;
Hon. Elbridge T. Gerry, Chairman Executive Committee;
and Clarence W. Bowen, Secretary.
Early on the morning of April 29 the President, accompanied
by Mrs. Harrison, Mrs. J. R. McKee, Mr. and Mrs.
Russell B. Harrison, the members of the Cabinet, Chief
Justice and Mrs. Fuller, Justice and Mrs. Field, Justice
Blatchford, Justice Strong, Major-General Schofield, Mr.
Walker Blaine and Miss Blaine, Col. Thos. F. Barr, Lieut.
T. B. M. Mason and Mrs. Mason, left Washington by special
train tendered by President Geo. R. Roberts and Vice-President
Frank Thomson, of the Pennsylvania Company.
The distinguished guests were escorted by the following
members of the Centennial Committee designated for this
honorable duty: John A. King, Chairman; John Jay,
Edward Cooper, Wm. H. Wickham, Wm. R. Grace, Frederick
J. DePeyster, Wm. H. Robertson, Cornelius Vanderbilt,
Wm. M. Evarts, Frank Hiscock, Seth Low, Orlando
B. Potter, Clifford S. Sims, Jas. Duane Livingston, and
Frank S. Witherbee.
At Trenton the party was met by the New Jersey Cen[205]tennial
Committee, consisting of Governor Green, General
Sewell, Rev. Dr. Hamill, Colonel Stockton, General Grubb,
Colonel Donnelly, Captain Skirm, Senator Cramner, Senator
Cattell, Colonel Chambers, and others.
Arrived at Elizabeth the President breakfasted with
Governor Green and then held a reception, conducted by
Col. Rob't S. Green, assisted by Col. Suydam, Chas. G.
Parkhurst, and John L. Boggs. Following the route taken
by Washington, President Harrison and his party embarked
at Elizabethport on board the U. S. S.Despatch,
and, escorted by a magnificent fleet of war ships, merchant
marine, and craft of all kinds, proceeded up the Kills to
the bay amid the roar of cannon from the several forts and
the men-of-war.
At the gangway of theDespatchthe President was received
by Jackson S. Schultz and the following gentlemen,
comprising the Committee on Navy: John S. Barnes,
George G. Haven, D. Willis James, Frederick R. Coudert,
Capt. Henry Erben, Ogden Goelet, John Jay Pierrepont,
Loyall Farragut, Alfred C. Cheney, Buchanan Winthrop,
and S. Nicholson Kane. Other distinguished guests on
theDespatchwere Gov. David B. Hill, Gen. William T.
Sherman, Admiral David D. Porter, Commodore Ramsey,
and Jas. M. Varnum. Several hundred thousand patriotic
people greeted theDespatchas she proudly entered the
harbor. The scene was a most memorable one.
Following the example of Washington, President Harrison
was rowed ashore in a barge, landing at Pier 16, where
he was met by the venerable Hamilton Fish, who welcomed
him to New York. Proceeding to the Equitable Building,
the President was tendered a reception in the rooms of the
Lawyers' Club, followed by a banquet under the auspices
of the Committee on States, consisting of the following distinguished
citizens: William G. Hamilton, Chairman;
James C. Carter, John Schuyler, J. T. Van Rensselaer, James
W. Husted, Theo. Roosevelt, Jacob A. Cantor, E. Ellery[206]Anderson, Floyd Clarkson, Henry W. LeRoy, John B.
Pine, Samuel Borrowe, and Jas. M. Montgomery. Among
the guests—other than the members of the Cabinet and the
other prominent gentlemen who accompanied the President
on theDespatch—were ex-President R. B. Hayes and the
Governors of thirty-five States.
At night the President and his Cabinet attended the
grand centennial ball at the Metropolitan Opera House, at
which 6,000 guests were present. This brilliant entertainment,
rendered memorable by the presence of so many distinguished
people, was given under the auspices of a
committee composed of the following society leaders:
Stuyvesant Fish, Chairman; William Waldorf Astor,
William K. Vanderbilt, William Jay, Egerton L. Winthrop,
Robert Goelet, Wm. B. Beekman, Stephen H. Olin,
Wm. E. D. Stokes, and Gouverneur Morris.
The morning of the 30th—Centennial Day—the
President, members of his Cabinet, with ex-Presidents
Cleveland and Hayes, Governor Hill, and many other
noted guests, attended thanksgiving services at St. Paul's
Church. The President and his family occupied the
Washington pew. The exercises were conducted by the
Rt. Rev. Henry C. Potter, Bishop of New York. The
literary exercises were held on the steps of the sub-Treasury,
where General Washington took his oath of office a
hundred years before. Countless thousands surrounded the
speaker's stand and congregated in the vicinity. Elbridge
T. Gerry presided and introduced Rev. Richard S. Storrs,
who delivered the invocation. Secretary Bowen read a
poem entitled "The Vow of Washington," composed for
the occasion by the venerable John Greenleaf Whittier.
Hon. Chauncey M. Depew then delivered the Centennial
oration. On conclusion, Chairman Gerry introduced
President Harrison, who was greeted with a grand outburst
as he advanced to the front. Amid repeated interruptions
with cheers he spoke as follows:
Mr. Chairman, my Countrymen—Official duty of a very exacting
character has made it quite impossible that I should deliver an address
on this occasion. Foreseeing this, I early notified your committee
that the programme must not contain any address by me. The
selection of Mr. Depew as the orator of this occasion makes further
speech not only difficult, but superfluous. He has met the demand
of this great occasion on its own high level. He has brought before
us the incidents and the lessons of the first inauguration of
Washington. We seem to have been a part of that admiring and
almost adoring throng that filled these streets one hundred years ago.
We have come into the serious, but always inspiring, presence
of Washington. He was the incarnation of duty, and he teaches
us to-day this great lesson: That those who would associate their
names with events that shall outlive a century can only do so by
high consecration to duty. Self-seeking has no public observance
or anniversary. The captain who gives to the sea his cargo of goods,
that he may give safety and deliverance to his imperilled fellow-men,
has fame; he who lands the cargo has only wages. Washington
seemed to come to the discharge of the duties of his high office
impressed with a great sense of his unfamiliarity with these new
calls thrust upon him, modestly doubtful of his own ability, but
trusting implicitly in the sustaining helpfulness and grace of that
God who rules the world, presides in the councils of nations, and
is able to supply every human defect. We have made marvellous
progress in material things since then, but the stately and enduring
shaft that we have erected at the national capital at Washington
symbolizes the fact that he is still the First American Citizen.
[Cheers.]
On conclusion of the ceremonies at the sub-Treasury the
President and other honored guests of the day reviewed
the grand military parade from a stand in Madison Square.
Along the line of march, especially on Broadway and
Fifth Avenue, for several miles the gorgeous pageant
moved between two living walls. Never were so many
people congregated on this continent. The glittering
column, commanded by General Schofield, moved with
continuous precision, and was five hours and twenty-five
minutes in passing the reviewing stand. The President[208]remained at his post, saluting the last company. The
troops of the various States were led by their Governors.
This monster military demonstration and the great industrial
parade of the day following were conducted under
the management of a committee comprising the following
well-known gentlemen: S. Van Rensselaer Cruger, Chairman;
John Cochrane, Locke W. Winchester, J. Hampden
Robb, Frederick Gallatin, Frederick D. Tappen, and John
C. Tomlinson.
The President's visit concluded with his participation
in the greatest banquet known to modern times, held at
the Metropolitan Opera House. The lavish decorations,
the magnitude and occasion of the entertainment have
rendered it historical. Eight hundred guests were seated
at the tables, while the surrounding boxes and stalls were
overflowing with distinguished ladies eagerly partaking of
the feast of reason. Mayor Grant presided, and introduced
Governor Hill, who welcomed the guests. Ex-President
Cleveland responded to the toast "Our People;"
Gov. Fitzhugh Lee, of Virginia, spoke to "The States;"
Chief-Justice Fuller responded to "The Federal Constitution;"
Hon. John W. Daniel spoke to "The Senate;" ex-President
Hayes to "The Presidency." Among other
prominent guests were Vice-President Morton, General
Sherman, Lieutenant-Governor Jones, of New York, Judge
Charles Andrews, Hon. Hannibal Hamlin, Mayor Chapin,
of Brooklyn, Governor Foraker, of Ohio, Abram S. Hewitt,
Cornelius N. Bliss, Fred'k S. Tallmadge, Samuel D. Babcock,
Chauncey M. Depew, Erastus Wiman, Charles W.
Dayton, Josiah M. Fisk, William Henry Smith, Thomas
S. Moore, Henry Clews, Austin Corbin, Philip L. Livingston,
Brayton Ives, Darius O. Mills, Richard T. Wilson,
William L. Strong, Henry B. Hyde, James M. Brown,
Louis Fitzgerald, Allan Campbell, John Sloane, James D.
Smith, Edward V. Loew, Eugene Kelly, Walter Stanton,
John F. Plummer, J. Edward Simmons, John Jay Knox,[209]De Lancey Nicoll, Henry G. Marquand, Gordon L. Ford,
Daniel Huntington, F. Hopkinson Smith, William E.
Dodge, Chas. Parsons, A. W. Drake, Oliver H. Perry,
Frank D. Millet, H. H. Boyesen, Charles Henry Hart,
Rutherford Stuyvesant, John L. Cadwalader, Lispenard
Stewart, Chas. H. Russell, Jr., and Richard W. Gilder.
After the Chief-Justice's address President Harrison
was introduced and received with a storm of applause.
He spoke to the toast "The United States of America" as
follows:
Mr. President and Fellow-citizens—I should be unjust to myself,
and, what is more serious, I should be unjust to you, if I did not at
this first and last opportunity express to you the deep sense of obligation
and thankfulness which I feel for these many personal and
official courtesies which have been extended to me since I came to
take part in this celebration. The official representatives of the
State of New York and of this great city have attended me with
the most courteous kindness, omitting no attention that could make
my stay among you pleasant and gratifying. From you and at the
hands of those who have thronged the streets of the city to-day I
have received the most cordial expressions of good will. I would
not, however, have you understand that these loud acclaims have
been in any sense appropriated as a personal tribute to myself. I
have realized that there was that in this occasion and all these interesting
incidents which have made it so profoundly impressive
to my mind which was above and greater than any living man. I
have realized that the tribute of cordial interest which you have
manifested was rendered to that great office which, by the favor of
a greater people, I now exercise, rather than to me.
The occasion and all of its incidents will be memorable not only
in the history of your own city, but in the history of our country.
New York did not succeed in retaining the seat of national government
here, although she made liberal provision for the assembling
of the first Congress in the expectation that the Congress might
find its permanent home here. But though you lost that which you
coveted, I think the representatives here of all the States will agree
that it was fortunate that the first inauguration of Washington
took place in the State and the city of New York.
For where in our country could the centennial of the event be so
worthily celebrated as here? What seaboard offered so magnificent
a bay on which to display our merchant and naval marine? What[210]city offered thoroughfares so magnificent, or a people so great, so
generous, as New York has poured out to-day to celebrate that
event?
I have received at the hands of the committee who have been
charged with the details—onerous, exacting, and too often unthankful—of
this demonstration evidence of their confidence in my physical
endurance. [Laughter.]
I must also acknowledge still one other obligation. The committee
having in charge the exercises of this event have also given me
another evidence of their confidence, which has been accompanied
with some embarrassment. As I have noticed the progress of this
banquet, it seemed to me that each of the speakers had been made
acquainted with his theme before he took his seat at the banquet,
and that I alone was left to make acquaintance with my theme
when I sat down to the table. I prefer to substitute for the official
title which is upon the programme the familiar and fireside expression,
"Our Country."
I congratulate you to-day, as one of the instructive and interesting
features of this occasion, that these great thoroughfares dedicated
to trade have closed their doors and covered up the insignias
of commerce; that your great exchanges have closed and your citizens
given themselves up to the observance of the celebration in
which we are participating.
I believe that patriotism has been intensified in many hearts by
what we have witnessed to-day. I believe that patriotism has been
placed in a higher and holier fane in many hearts. The bunting
with which you have covered your walls, these patriotic inscriptions,
must go down and the wage and trade be resumed again.
Here may I not ask you to carry those inscriptions that now hang
on the walls into your homes, into the schools of your city, into
all of your great institutions where children are gathered, and
teach them that the eye of the young and the old should look upon
that flag as one of the familiar glories of every American? Have
we not learned that no stocks and bonds, nor land, is our country?
It is a spiritual thought that is in our minds—it is the flag and
what it stands for; it is the fireside and the home; it is the
thoughts that are in our hearts, born of the inspiration which
comes with the story of the flag, of martyrs to liberty. It is the
graveyard into which a common country has gathered the unconscious
deeds of those who died that the thing might live which we
love and call our country, rather than anything that can be touched
or seen.
Let me add a thought due to our country's future. Perhaps[211]never have we been so well equipped for war upon land as now,
and we have never seen the time when our people were more smitten
with the love of peace. To elevate the morals of our people;
to hold up the law as that sacred thing which, like the ark of God
of old, may not be touched by irreverent hands, but frowns upon
any attempt to dethrone its supremacy; to unite our people in all
that makes home comfortable, as well as to give our energies
in the direction of material advancement, this service may we
render. And out of this great demonstration let us draw lessons to
inspire us to consecrate ourselves anew to this love and service of
our country.
A memorableevent in the history of Indiana was the
laying of the corner-stone of the Soldiers' and Sailors'
Monument at Indianapolis on August 22, 1889. The
Board of Commissioners for the erection of the monument—under
whose supervision the attendant exercises were conducted—comprised:
George J. Langsdale, of Greencastle,
President; Geo. W. Johnston, of Indianapolis, Secretary;
T. W. Bennett, of Richmond; S. B. Voyles, of Salem; and
D. C. McCollum, of La Porte.
President Harrison and his party were honored guests
on the occasion; he was accompanied by Secretary Jeremiah
M. Rusk, Attorney-General W. H. H. Miller, Private
Secretary E. W. Halford, Capt. William M. Meredith,
Marshal Daniel M. Ransdell, and General Thomas J.
Morgan.
At College Corner, on the Indiana border, the President
was met by Gov. Alvin P. Hovey, Mayor Caleb S. Denny,
Hon. William H. English, William Scott, John P. Frenzel,
Robert S. McKee, J. A. Wildman, Albert Gall, Dr.
Henry Jameson, and others, comprising an honorary escort
committee. Governor Hovey welcomed the President to
Indiana in a brief, cordial address, to which President
Harrison responded:
I thank the Governor for this larger welcome extended as Governor
on the part of the people of the whole State. You have well
said that the people of Indiana have been kind to me, and if,
when my public career is ended, I can return to you the happy
possessor of your respect and good-will, I shall not leave public
office with regret.
Arriving at Indianapolis on the evening of the 21st,
the President was formally waited upon by the Monument
Commissioners and Board of Trade Reception
Committee. General James R. Carnahan, on behalf of
the Commissioners, and George G. Tanner, President of
the Board of Trade, warmly welcomed him.
To their addresses President Harrison replied:
Gentlemen of the Committees and Friends—I scarcely know how
to convey to you my deep impressions at this cordial welcome back
to Indianapolis. I cannot hope to do it. I have been deeply
touched by this generous and courteous reception. It was not my
expectation when I left Indianapolis a few months ago, under so
serious a sense of my responsibilities, that I would return again so
soon to my home. But this occasion was one which I could not
well be absent from. It is one that should enlist to a degree that
nothing else can do our patriotic interests and State pride. It is
true, as General Carnahan has said, that I took an early interest
in this movement. I felt that until this monument was built,
until its top-stone was laid, and its voice had been heard by the people
of this State in expressive speech, we had not done that for our
soldier dead which we should, and that we had neglected those
who died for us. I am glad, therefore, to be present and see this
monument started. I reverently rejoice with you on this occasion,
and hail the work which these commissioners have so wisely and
magnificently begun.
Among other distinguished guests participating in the
ceremonies were Mrs. Jennie Meyerhoff, of Evansville,
President of the Woman's Relief Corps, Department of
Indiana; Col. George C. Harvey, of Danville, commanding
the Sons of Veterans, Division of Indiana; Mrs. Zelda
Seguin-Wallace and Miss Laura McManis, Indianapolis;
Miss Kate Hammond, Greencastle, and Rev. H. J. Talbott.
The march to the monument was one of the most impos[213]ing
demonstrations ever witnessed in Indiana. Fifteen
thousand veterans and others formed the great column,
commanded by Chief Marshal Charles A. Zollinger, of Fort
Wayne; Chief of Staff, Major Irvin Robbins; Adjutant-General,
Major Wilbur F. Hitt, assisted by a brilliant
staff of 60 prominent citizens. In addition to these officers
of the day was a mounted honorary staff, representing
the thirteen Congressional districts. They were: First
District, Gil R. Stormont, Princeton; Second, Col. Elijah
Cavens, Bloomfield; Third, Capt. James B. Patton, Jeffersonville;
Fourth, Marine D. Tackett, Greensburg;
Fifth, Maj. J. G. Dunbar, Greencastle; Sixth, Maj. J. F.
Wildman, Muncie; Seventh, Capt. D. W. Hamilton,
Indianapolis; Eighth, Capt. A. C. Ford, Terre Haute;
Ninth, Col. R. P. DeHart, Lafayette; Tenth, Capt. M.
L. DeMotte, Valparaiso; Eleventh, Col. C. E. Briant,
Huntington; Twelfth, Capt. J. C. Peltier, Fort Wayne;
Thirteenth, Gen. Reub. Williams, Warsaw. More than
100,000 people witnessed the pageant.
The monument is a majestic square embellished shaft of
Indiana limestone, some 250 feet high, surmounted by a
heroic figure of Victory, the pedestal resting upon a great
circular stone terrace. The architects were Bruno Schmitz,
of Berlin, and Frederick Baumann, of Chicago. The
ceremony of laying the corner-stone was conducted by the
following officials of the Grand Army of the Republic:
Commander of the Department of Indiana Charles M.
Travis, of Crawfordsville; Senior Vice Department Commander
P. D. Harris, of Shelbyville; Junior Vice-Commander
B. B. Campbell, of Anderson; Assistant Adjutant-General
I. N. Walker, of Indianapolis; Officers of the Day
Wm. H. Armstrong, of Indianapolis, and Lieut.-Gov.
Ira J. Chase, of Danville.
Gov. Alvin P. Hovey, as presiding officer, delivered an
eloquent opening address, which was followed by the singing
of the hymn "Dedication," written for the occasion by[214]Charles M. Walker, of Indianapolis. The speakers of the
day were Gen. Mahlon D. Manson, of Crawfordsville, and
Gen. John Coburn, of Indianapolis. Their masterly orations
were followed by the reading of a poem, "What Shall
It Teach?" written by Capt. Lee O. Harris, of Greenfield.
When Governor Hovey introduced the Chief Executive
of the Nation the vast audience swayed with enthusiasm.
In a voice low, and with a slight tremble in it, President
Harrison began his fine tribute to the men who responded
to the country's call. As he proceeded his voice rose
higher until it rang out clear as a bugle and drew from
the multitude repeated and vociferous cheers. He spoke
as follows:
Mr. President and Fellow-citizens—I did not expect to make any
address on this occasion. It would have been pleasant, if I could
have found leisure to make suitable preparation, to have accepted
the invitation of the committee having these exercises in charge
to deliver an oration. I would have felt it an honor to associate
my name with an occasion so great as this. Public duties, however,
prevented the acceptance of the invitation, and I could only
promise to be present with you to-day. It seemed to me most appropriate
that I should take part with my fellow-citizens of Indiana
in this great ceremony. There have been few occasions in the
history of our State so full of interest, so magnificent, so inspiring,
as that which we now witness. The suggestion that a monument
should be builded to commemorate the valor and heroism of those
soldiers of Indiana who gave their lives for the flag attracted my
interest from the beginning. Five years ago last January, when
the people assembled in the opera-house yonder to unveil the statue
which had been worthily set up to our great war Governor, I ventured
to express the hope that near by it, as a twin expression of
one great sentiment, there might be builded a noble shaft, not to
any man, not to bear on any of its majestic faces the name of a
man, but a monument about which the sons of veterans, the mothers
of our dead, the widows that are yet with us, might gather,
and, pointing to the stately shaft, say: "There is his monument."
The hope expressed that day is realized now. [Cheers.]
I congratulate the people of Indiana that our Legislature has
generously met the expectations of our patriotic people. I congratulate
the commission having this great work in charge that they[215]have secured a design which will not suffer under the criticism of
the best artists of the world. I congratulate you that a monument
so costly as to show that we value that which it commemorates, so
artistic as to express the sentiment which evoked it, is to stand in
the capital of Indiana. Does any one say there is wastefulness
here? [Cries of "No, no!"] My countrymen, $200,000 has never
passed, and never will pass, from the treasury of Indiana that will
give a better return than the expenditure for the erection of this
monument. As I have witnessed these ceremonies and listened to
these patriotic hymns I have read in the faces of the men who
stand about me that lifting up of the soul, that kindling of patriotic
fire, that has made me realize that on such occasions the Nation
is laying deep and strong its future security.
This is a monument by Indiana to Indiana soldiers. But I beg
you to remember that they were only soldiers of Indiana until the
enlistment oath was taken; that from that hour until they came
back to the generous State that had sent them forth they were soldiers
of the Union. So that it seemed to me not inappropriate that
I should bring to you to-day the sympathy and cheer of the loyal people
of all the States. No American citizen need avoid it or pass
it with unsympathetic eyes, for, my countrymen, it does not commemorate
a war of subjugation. There is not in the United States
to-day a man who, if he realizes what has occurred since the war
and has opened his soul to the sight of that which is to come, who
will not feel that it is good for all our people that victory crowned
the cause which this monument commemorates. I do seriously believe
that if we can measure among the States the benefits resulting
from the preservation of the Union, the rebellious States have
the larger share. It destroyed an institution that was their destruction.
It opened the way for a commercial life that, if they
will only embrace it and face the light, means to them a development
that shall rival the best attainments of the greatest of our
States.
And now let me thank you for your pleasant greeting. I have
felt lifted up by this occasion. It seems to me that our spirits
have been borne up to meet those of the dead and glorified, and
that from this place we shall go to our homes more resolutely set
in our purpose as citizens to conserve the peace and welfare of our
neighborhoods, to hold up the dignity and honor of our free institutions,
and to see that no harm shall come to our country, whether
from internal dissensions or from the aggressions of a foreign foe.
[Great cheering.]
A camp-fire was held at night at Tomlinson Hall, presided
over by Charles M. Travis, Commander of Indiana
G. A. R., where an audience of over 5,000 assembled.
The orators of the occasion were Hon. Samuel B.
Voyles, of Salem; Judge Daniel Waugh, of Tipton; General
Jasper Packard, of New Albany; Col. I. N. Walker
and Albert J. Beveridge, Indianapolis; Hon. Benj. S.
Parker, New Castle, and Hon. Wm. R. Myers, Anderson.
President Harrison's appearance was greeted by a prolonged
demonstration, the audience rising with one impulse.
Commander Travis said: "I told you I would treat you to
a surprise. Here is your President. He needs no introduction."
Mr. Chairman, Comrades—I think I will treat you to another surprise.
My Indiana friends have been so much accustomed to have
me talk on all occasions that I am sure nothing would gratify them
more—nothing would be a greater surprise than for me to decline to
talk to-night. I am very grateful for this expression of your interest
and respect. That comradeship and good feeling which your
cordial salutation has expressed to me I beg every comrade of the
Grand Army here to-night to believe I feel for him.
Now, I am sure, in view of the labors of yesterday and to-day,
that you will allow me to wish you prosperous, happy, useful lives,
honorable and peaceful deaths, and that those who survive you may
point to this shaft, which is being reared yonder, as a worthy tribute
of your services in defence of your country. [Cheers.]
Theday following the ceremonies at the Soldiers' Monument
President Harrison attended the fifteenth annual
reunion of his old regiment, the Seventieth Indiana, at
Tomlinson Hall. Many survivors of the One Hundred and
Second and One Hundred and Fifth Indiana, the One Hundred
and Twenty-ninth Illinois, and the Seventy-ninth[217]Ohio regiments were present. These regiments, with the
Seventieth, constituted the First Brigade—General Harrison's
command. The gathering, therefore, was alternately
a regimental and brigade reunion.
Col. Samuel Merrill, who delivered the annual address,
escorted the President, and amid enthusiastic
cheering installed him as presiding officer of the assembly.
Other prominent members of the Seventieth present were
Gen. Thomas J. Morgan, Capt. Wm. M. Meredith, Daniel
M. Ransdell, Moses G. McLain, Capt. H. M. Endsley, Capt.
Wm. Mitchell, and Capt. Chas. H. Cox. General Harrison
was unanimously re-elected President of the regimental
association; he was also chosen first President of the
brigade association. The other brigade officers were
Vice-President, Gen. Daniel Dustin; Second Vice-President,
Gen. A. W. Doane; Secretary, J. M. Ayers; Treasurer,
E. H. Conger.
In the absence of Mayor Denny, City Attorney W. L.
Taylor cordially welcomed the veterans to Indianapolis.
To this greeting the presiding officer, President Harrison,
responded:
Mr. Taylor—The survivors of the Seventieth Indiana Volunteer
Infantry, now assembled in annual reunion, have heard, with great
gratification, the cordial words of welcome which you have addressed
to us. We have never doubted the hospitality of the citizens
of this great city, and have several times held our reunions
here; and if we have more frequently sought some of the quieter
towns in this Congressional district—where the regiment was organized—it
has only been because we could be a little more to ourselves
than was possible in this city. You will not think this a
selfish instinct when I tell you that, as the years go on, these reunions
of our regiment become more and more a family affair;
and as in the gathering of the scattered members of a family in
the family reunion, so we have loved, when we get together as
comrades, to be somewhat apart, that we might enjoy each other.
It has been pleasant, I am sure, however, to link this annual reunion
with the great event of yesterday. It did us good to meet
with our comrades of the whole State—those who had other numbers
on their uniforms, but carried the same flag under which we[218]marched—in these exercises connected with the dedication of a
monument that knows no regimental distinction. [Applause.]
If those having charge now will announce some proper arrangement
by which I can take by the hand the members, not only of
the Seventieth Indiana, but any comrades of the First Brigade,
who have done us honor by meeting with us to-day, I would be
glad to conform to their wishes. It is perhaps possible that, without
leaving the hall, simply by an exchange of seats, this may be
accomplished, and when that is done there may yet be time before
dinner to proceed with some other of the exercises upon the programme.
Mondaymorning, December 9, 1889, President Harrison,
accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. Russell B. Harrison,
Mrs. McKee, and First Ass't Postmaster-General J. S.
Clarkson and wife, arrived in Chicago for the purpose of
participating in the dedication of the great Auditorium
building, in which—while in an unfinished state—was held
the convention of June, 1888, that nominated General
Harrison for the presidency. The distinguished party
was met by a committee comprising Mayor D. C. Cregier,
Ferd. W. Peck, Gen. Geo. W. Crook, Hon. A. L. Seeberger,
Col. James A. Sexton, Alexander H. Revell, Franklin S.
Head, C. L. Hutchinson, Charles Counselman, J. J. P.
Odell, Col. O. A. Schaffner, F. S. Bissell, and R. W.
Dunham.
During the morning the President and Vice-President
Morton, under the guidance of Mr. Ferd. Peck, visited the
Board of Trade and were tendered an enthusiastic reception
by the members of that famous exchange. Then
followed a reception and lunch at the Union League Club,
as the guests of Mr. Peck and President Bissell of the Club.
Other prominent citizens present were Governor Fifer,
Geo. M. Pullman, Marshall Field, Joseph Medill, S. M.
Nickerson, J. R. Rumsey, N. K. Fairbank, Sam. W. Allerton,
A. A. Sprague, H. H. Kohlsaat, Wm. Penn Nixon, A.[219]L. Patterson, Adolph Caron, C. I. Peck, A. L. Coe, John
R. Walsh, J. W. Scott, John B. Carson, M. A. Ryerson,
V. F. Lawson, and O. W. Meysenberg. Later in the afternoon
the President and Mr. Morton, accompanied by
Governor Hoard, of Wisconsin, General Alger, and Judge
Thurston, visited the Marquette Club—of which the President
is an honorary member—and were received by President
Revell, Secretary Gould, H. M. Kingman, C. W.
Gordon, and C. E. Nixon, comprising the Reception Committee.
The dedication of the auditorium hall in the evening
was an event of rare interest in the history of Chicago.
President Harrison and his party and Vice-President and
Mrs. Morton were the honored guests of the occasion.
Other distinguished out-of-town guests were Sir Adolph
Caron, Hon. G. A. Kirkpatrick, C. H. McIntosh, and Mr.
Wells, of Canada; Governor and Mrs. Fifer; Governor
and Mrs. Merriam, of Minnesota; Governor Hoard, of
Wisconsin; Governor and Mrs. Larrabee, of Iowa; Mrs.
Governor Gordon; ex-Governor Morton, of Nebraska;
General Alger, Judge and Mrs. Walter Q. Gresham; Mr.
and Mrs. House, of St. Louis, and Mr. and Mrs. F. J.
Mackey, of Kansas City.
The Auditorium—the modern Parthenon—typifying the
spirit of the age, is largely the conception of Mr. Ferd. W.
Peck, and its realization is the fruit of his zeal, supported
and encouraged by the wealthy men of Chicago. The
great structure, costing three and a half million dollars,
was built by the Chicago Auditorium Association, whose
officers at the time of completion were: Ferd. W. Peck,
President; N. K. Fairbank, First Vice-President; John
R. Walsh, Second Vice-President; Charles L. Hutchinson,
Treasurer; Charles H. Lunt, Secretary. The building was
begun June 1, 1887; the laying of the corner-stone occurred
in September that year, and was witnessed by President
Cleveland and other distinguished visitors. It has a front[220]age
of 710 feet on Congress Street, Michigan and Wabash
avenues. The exterior material is granite and Bedford
stone. The height of the main structure is 145 feet, or
ten stories; height of tower above main building 95 feet,
or eight floors; height of lantern above main tower 30 feet,
or two floors; total height 270 feet—one of the tallest buildings
in the world. The permanent seating capacity of the
auditorium is over 4,000, but for conventions—by utilizing
stage—this capacity is increased to 8,000. A feature
of the great hall is the grand organ. In addition to this
unrivalled convention hall the colossal structure contains a
recital hall, 136 stores and offices, a hotel with 400 guest
rooms, and a magnificent banquet hall 175 feet long.
The gathering at the dedicatory exercises nationalized
the Auditorium; 15,000 people were within its walls. The
President and Mrs. McKee were the guests of Mr. and Mrs.
Ferd. W. Peck. Among the several thousand prominent
residents present were the following gentlemen and their
families—stockholders in the Auditorium Association: G.
E. Adams, A. C. Bartlett, G. M. Bogue, C. W. Brega, J.
W. Doane, J. B. Drake, J. K. Fisher, Carter H. Harrison,
Charles Henrotin, O. R. Keith, G. F. Kimball, S. D. Kimbark,
J. T. Lester, W. L. Peck, R. W. Roloson, W. C.
Seipp, Lazarus Silverman, Robert Warren, John Wilkinson,
Jr., C. S. Willoughby, C. T. Yerkes, J. McGregor
Adams, W. T. Baker, Gen. J. C. Black, H. Botsford, R.
R. Cable, C. R. Cummings, J. C. Dore, G. L. Dunlap, C.
B. Farwell, J. J. Glessner, E. G. Kieth, W. D. Kerfoot, W.
W. Kimball, L. Z. Leiter, J. M. Loomis, A. A. Munger, N.
B. Ream, Conrad Seipp, J. G. Shortall, W. Sooy Smith, P.
B. Weare, Norman Williams, F. H. Winston, and J. Otto
Young.
The exercises opened with an address of welcome by
Mayor Cregier, followed by a speech from Mr. Peck, President
of the Association, who received an ovation. President
Harrison's address was followed by the rendition of[221]the hymn "America" by the Apollo Club of 500 trained
voices. Hon. John S. Runnells delivered the dedicatory
oration. Then came the real event of the day—"Home,
Sweet Home" and the "Swiss Echo Song" by the incomparable
songstress Adelina Patti, who shared the honors
of the occasion with the President. The programme
concluded with an address by Governor Fifer and the
grand "Hallelujah" chorus from "The Messiah."
As Mr. Peck introduced President Harrison the great
assembly enthusiastically testified its welcome. The President
spoke as follows:
Ladies and Gentlemen—Some of my newspaper friends have been
puzzling themselves in order to discover the reason why I left
Washington to be present here to-night. I do not think I need, in
view of the magnificent spectacle presented to us here to-night,
to state the motives which have impelled my presence. Surely
no loyal citizen of Chicago who sits here to-night under this witching
and magnificent scene will ask for any other reason than that
which is here presented. [Applause.]
I do most heartily congratulate you upon the completion and inauguration
of this magnificent building—without an equal in this
country, and, so far as I know, without an equal in the world.
[Applause.] We have here about us to-night in this grand architecture,
in this tasteful decoration, that which is an education
and an inspiration. [Applause.] It might well tempt one whose
surroundings were much farther removed from this scene than is
the capital city to make a longer journey than I have done to stand
for an hour in the view of such a spectacle of magnificence and
grandeur and architectural triumph as this. [Applause.] And if
that be true, surely there is reason enough why the President may
turn aside for a little while from public duty to mingle with his
fellow-citizens in celebrating an event so high and so worthy of
commemoration as this triumph to-night. [Prolonged applause.]
Not speech, certainly, not the careless words of an extemporaneous
speech, can adequately express all the sentiments I feel in contemplating
the fitting culmination of this deed. [Applause.] Only
the voice of the immortal singer can bring from these arches those
echoes which will tell us the true purpose of their construction.
[Applause.]
You will permit me, then, to thank you, to thank the Mayor of
Chicago, to thank the President of this Association, and to thank[222]all those good citizens with whom I have to-day been brought in
personal contact, for the kindness and respect with which you and
they have received me; and you will permit me to thank you, my
fellow-citizens, for the cordiality which you have kindly displayed
here to-night.
It is my wish, and may it be the wish of all, that this great
building may continue to be to all your population that which it
should be—an edifice opening its doors from night to night, calling
your people here away from the care of business to those enjoyments,
and pursuits, and entertainments which develop the souls
of men [applause], which will have power to inspire those whose
lives are heavy with daily toil, and in its magnificent and enchanting
presence lift them for a time out of these dull things into those
higher things where men should live. [Great applause.]
OnDecoration Day, 1890, President Harrison and Vice-President
Morton, accompanied by Secretary Windom,
Postmaster-General Wanamaker, Attorney-General Miller,
Secretary of Agriculture Rusk, and Marshal Daniel M.
Ransdell, visited the city of Cleveland for the purpose of
participating in the dedication of the grand mausoleum
erected to the memory of the lamented President James
Abram Garfield. Fifty thousand people greeted the President
and his party on arrival.
The mausoleum is situated in Lake View Cemetery, overlooking
a region closely associated with Garfield's memory;
it is built of Ohio sandstone—a large and imposing circular
tower 50 feet in diameter, rising 180 feet. At the base
projects a square porch, decorated externally with an
historical frieze, divided into panels containing life-size
bas-reliefs picturing the career of Garfield as teacher,
statesman, soldier, and President. This imposing monument
was erected under the auspices of the Garfield
National Memorial Association, whose officers were:
Rutherford B. Hayes, President; J. H. Wade and T. P.[223]Handy, Vice-Presidents; Amos Townsend, Secretary.
The Trustees of the Association were: Charles Foster,
R. B. Hayes, James G. Blaine, H. B. Payne, J. H. Wade,
Dan'l P. Eells, J. H. Rhodes, James Barnett, John Hay,
T. P. Handy, J. B. Parsons, William Bingham, W. S.
Streator, and H. C. White. The memorial cost $150,000,
of which $75,000 was contributed by citizens of Cleveland;
the architect was George Keller, of Hartford, Connecticut.
More than 100,000 people witnessed the parade and the
dedicatory ceremonies, which were conducted under the
auspices of the Grand Commandery, Knights Templars
of Ohio—Right Eminent Henry Perkins, of Akron, Grand
Commander; Very Eminent William B. Melish, of Cincinnati,
Grand Marshal; Eminent Sir Huntington Brown,
of Mansfield, Generalissimo; Eminent Sir L. F. Van Cleve,
of Cincinnati, Grand Prelate; Eminent Sir H. P. McIntosh,
of Cleveland, Grand Senior Warden; and Eminent
Sir J. Burton Parsons, of Cleveland, Grand Treasurer.
The committee to receive and entertain the guests from
other cities comprised the following prominent residents of
Cleveland: Hon. J. H. Wade, Dan'l P. Eells, M. A. Hanna,
Col. William Edwards, Hon. R. C. Parsons, Henry D.
Coffinberry, Gen. M. D. Leggett, Hon. George H. Ely,
Hon. Joseph Turney, Samuel Andrews, Hon. S. Buhrer,
Hon. H. B. Payne, Charles F. Brush, Hon. Charles A. Otis,
R. K. Hawley, William Chisholm, H. R. Hatch, W. J.
McKinnie, John Tod, Hon. N. B. Sherwin, L. E. Holden,
George W. Howe, Samuel L. Mather, Judge S. Burke, Col.
John Hay, Hon. T. E. Burton, Hon. R. R. Herrick, Selah
Chamberlain, A. Wiener, Charles Wesley, Hon. Lee McBride,
Hon. O. J. Hodge, H. C. Ranney, G. E. Herrick,
Hon. W. W. Armstrong, S. T. Everett, Judge J. M. Jones,
Hon. J. H. Farley, Hon. G. W. Gardner, R. R. Rhodes,
J. B. Zerbe, Samuel W. Sessions, Louis H. Severance,
Hon. M. A. Foran, Hon. C. B. Lockwood, Hon. William[224]Bingham, John F. Whitelaw, Fayette Brown, Capt. P. G.
Watmough, E. R. Perkins, Bolivar Butts, George T. Chapman,
Hon. D. A. Dangler, Charles Hickox, and George
W. Pack. Committee on Finance: John H. McBride,
Myron T. Herrick, S. C. Ford, Joseph Turney, Charles
L. Pack, H. S. Whittlesey, H. R. Groff, Percy W. Rice,
Charles H. Bulkley, Douglas Perkins, Kaufman Hays, M.
A. Hanna, T. S. Knight, James Parmelee, I. P. Lampson,
Samuel Mather, O. M. Stafford, C. J. Sheffield, Harvey H.
Brown, J. K. Bole, Dan'l P. Eells, H. R. Hatch, John F.
Pankhurst, John Tod, and George P. Welch.
The event called together one of the most distinguished
assemblies of the decade. Among the guests not previously
mentioned—who occupied places of honor—were
Gen. William T. Sherman, Chief-Justice Melville W.
Fuller, Maj.-Gen. John M. Schofield, ex-Postmaster-General
Thomas L. James, Gov. James E. Campbell, Lieutenant-Governor
Marquis, Hon. William McKinley, Jr.,
Bishop William A. Leonard, Bishop Gilmour, Col. Wm.
Perry Fogg, and many others. Mrs. Garfield was accompanied
by her four sons, her daughter, and General and
Mrs. John Newell.
The spectacular event of the day was the grand military
and civic parade, participated in by President Harrison
and the other guests. Six thousand men were in line, commanded
by Chief Marshal Gen. James Barnett and a brilliant
staff. At the head of the great column marched 115
survivors of Garfield's old regiment—the Forty-second
Ohio—led by Capt. C. E. Henry, of Dallas, Texas, the Colonel,
Judge Don A. Pardee, being absent. The procession
comprised twelve divisions, commanded by the following
marshals: Capt. J. B. Molyneaux, Gen. M. D. Leggett,
Col. W. H. Hayward, Em. Sir M. J. Houck, Col. Louis
Black, Col. John Dunn, Capt. E. H. Bohm, Captain
McNiel, Capt. Louis Perczel, Col. Allen T. Brinsmade,
Col. C. L. Alderson, and Capt. M. G. Browne.
Ex-President Hayes officiated as Chairman of the dedicatory
meeting at the mausoleum, and introduced Hon.
Jacob D. Cox, of Cincinnati, who delivered the oration of
the occasion. Many other distinguished men spoke briefly.
When the Chairman introduced President Harrison an
ovation was tendered him, and almost every sentence of
his address was enthusiastically cheered.
The President spoke with great earnestness. He said:
Mr. Chairman and Fellow-citizens—I thank you most sincerely
for this cordial greeting, but I shall not be betrayed by it into a
lengthy speech. The selection of this day for these exercises—a
day consecrated to the memory of those who died that there might
be one flag of honor and authority in this republic—is most fitting.
That one flag encircles us with its folds to-day, the unrivalled object
of our loyal love.
This monument, so imposing and tasteful, fittingly typifies the
grand and symmetrical character of him in whose honor it has
been builded. His was "the arduous greatness of things done."
No friendly hands constructed and placed for his ambition a ladder
upon which he might climb. His own brave hands framed and
nailed the cleats upon which he climbed to the heights of public
usefulness and fame. He never ceased to be student and instructor.
Turning from peaceful pursuits to army service, he quickly mastered
tactics and strategy, and in a brief army career taught some
valuable lessons in military science. Turning again from the field
to the councils of state, he stood among the great debaters that
have made our National Congress illustrious. What he might have
been or done as President of the United States is chiefly left to
friendly augury, based upon a career that had no incident of failure
or inadequacy. The cruel circumstances attending his death
had but one amelioration—that space of life was given him to teach
from his dying bed a great lesson of patience and forbearance.
His mortal part will find honorable rest here, but the lessons of his
life and death will continue to be instructive and inspiring incidents
in American history. [Great applause.]
Mondayafternoon, August 11, the cruiserBaltimore,
bearing President Harrison, Secretary Rusk, Secretary
Noble, and a number of friends, entered Boston harbor,
saluted by theAtlanta, theKearsage, thePetrel, theYorktown, theDolphin, the dynamite cruiserVesuvius,
and the torpedo-boatCushing. The distinguished guests
were met by the Hon. John Q. A. Brackett, Governor of
Massachusetts; Hon. Alanson W. Beard, Collector of the
Port; Adj.-Gen. Samuel Dalton, Surg.-Gen. Alfred F.
Holt, Judge Adv. Gen. Edward O. Shepard, Col. Sidney
M. Hedges, Col. Wm. P. Stoddard, Col. Samuel E. Winslow,
and Col. Edward V. Mitchell, of the Governor's military
staff; Hon. Thomas N. Hart, Mayor of Boston; Hon.
Geo. L. Goodale, Chairman Executive Committee National
Encampment, G. A. R.; Hon. John D. Long, President
National Encampment Committee; Hon. E. S. Converse,
Treasurer; and Secretary Silas A. Barton.
Many thousand visiting veterans greeted the head of
the Nation as he passed through the historic streets escorted
by the First Battalion of Cavalry. Arrived at the
Hotel Vendome, the President and his party, as guests of
the Commonwealth, attended a State banquet, presided
over by Governor Brackett. There was no speech-making.
Other distinguished guests were Vice-President Morton,
Secretaries Proctor and Tracy, General Sherman, Admiral
Gherardi, Gov. Leon Abbett, of New Jersey, and Lieutenant-Governor
Hale, of Massachusetts. Later in the evening
Governor Brackett and staff escorted the President to the
Parker House, where they participated in a reception given
by E. W. Kinsley Post of Boston to Lafayette Post 149 of
New York. Many veterans of national fame were present,
among them Gen. Lucius Fairchild, Gen. Dan'l E. Sickles,[227]Corporal James Tanner, ex-Gov. Austin Blair, of Michigan,
Commander Viele, of Lafayette Post, and the following
prominent citizens of Massachusetts, comprising the
Reception Committee of the National Encampment: Hon.
Henry H. Sprague, President Massachusetts Senate; Hon.
Wm. E. Barrett, Speaker Massachusetts House; Hon.
Wm. Power Wilson, Chairman Boston Aldermen; Horace
G. Allen, President Common Council; Hon. John F. Andrew,
Geo. H. Innis, Charles E. Osgood, Arthur A. Fowle,
Fred C. King, Paul H. Kendricken, J. H. O'Neil, Joel
Goldthwaite, Hon. Charles J. Noyes, Hon. E. A. Stevens,
Horace G. Allen, Capt. Nathan Appleton, Col. Albert
Clarke, Chas. D. Rohan, F. C. Brownell, and A. S. Fowle,
of Boston; Gen. A. B. R. Sprague and Col. H. E. Smith, of
Worcester; John W. Hersey, of Springfield; John M.
Deane, Fall River; Gen. J. W. Kimball, Fitchburg; Maj.
Geo. S. Merrill, Lawrence; Wm. H. Lee, Greenwood; S.
W. Benson, Charlestown; Joseph O. Burdett, Hingham;
Col. Myron P. Walker, Belchertown; and Arthur A.
Smith, of Griswoldsville. The reception concluded with
a banquet. Col. Charles L. Taylor acted as toastmaster
and presented General Harrison, who received an ovation.
In response to these cordial greetings the President said:
Comrades—I do not count it the least of those fortunate circumstances
which have occasionally appeared in my life that I am able
to be here to-night to address you as comrades of the Grand Army
of the United States. [Great applause.] It is an association great
in its achievement and altogether worthy of perpetuation until the
last of its members have fallen into an honorable grave. It is
not my purpose to-night to address you in an extended speech, but
only to say that, whether walking with you in the private pursuits
of life, or holding a place of official responsibility, I can never, in
either, forget those who upheld the flag of this Nation in those days
when it was in peril. Everything that was worthy of preservation
in our history past, everything that is glowing and glorious in the
future, which we confront, turned upon the issue of that strife in
which you were engaged. Will you permit me to wish for each of
you a life full of all sweetness, and that each of you may preserve,[228]undimmed, the love for the flag which called you from your homes
to stand under its folds amid the shock of battle and amid dying
men. I believe there are indications to-day in this country of a
revived love for the flag. [Applause.] I could wish that no American
citizen would look upon it without saluting it. [Loud applause.]
Themorning of August 12 the President and the several
members of his Cabinet, with Vice-President Morton,
Governor Brackett, Mayor Hart, General Sherman,
Governor Dillingham and staff, of Vermont; Governor
Davis, of Rhode Island; Hon. William McKinley, Hon.
Henry Cabot Lodge, Mrs. John A. Logan, Mrs. R. A.
Alger, Mrs. McKee, Mrs. A. L. Coolidge, and Lillian
Nordica, theprima donna, reviewed the grand parade of
the veterans from a stand in Copley Square. As the head
of the great column appeared, led by Commander-in-Chief
R. A. Alger, with mounted staff and escort numbering
600 officers, the President and his Cabinet arose and saluted
the veterans. General Alger and Gen. B. F. Butler
reviewed the column from a stand in Adams Square. The
parade was five hours and thirty-five minutes in passing.
In the evening the Mayor's Club of Boston tendered a banquet
to President Harrison and other distinguished visitors.
Mayor Fisher, of Waltham, introduced the Chief
Executive, who said:
Mr. Chairman—I wish only to thank you for this cordial welcome.
Being upon my feet, I cannot refrain from expressing here
my deep sense of gratitude for all the evidences of friendliness
which have been shown me during my brief stay in Boston. The
President of the United States, whosoever he may have been, from
the first to the last, has always found in the citizenship of Massachusetts
stanch supporters of the Union's Constitution. [Applause.]
It has never occurred that he has called upon this great common[229]wealth
for support that it has not been cordially and bravely rendered.
In this magnificent parade which we have seen to-day of
the survivors of the Massachusetts regiments in the war for the
Union, and in this magnificent parade of the Sons of Veterans,
coming on now to take the fathers' place in civil life and to stand
as they were in their day as bulwarks of the Nation's defence, we
have seen a magnificent evidence of what Massachusetts has done
in defence of the Union and of the flag, and in these young
men sure promise of what she would do again if the exigencies
should call upon her to give her blood in a similar cause. [Applause.]
Let me again cordially thank you for your interest and friendliness
and to bid you good-night, and, as I must leave you to-night for
Washington, to hope that the closing exercises of this grand and
instructive week may be pleasant, and as the outcome of it all that
there may be kindled in the hearts of you all, and of these comrades
of the Grand Army of the Republic, a newer love for the
flag and for the Constitution, and that this may all inure to us in
social, family, and public life. [Applause and cheers.]
Quitting the Mayor's banquet, the President and members
of the Cabinet, with Admiral Gherardi and staff, proceeded
to Mechanics' Hall, where a joint reception of the
Grand Army and Woman's Relief Corps was in progress.
At least 15,000 people greeted the arrival of the distinguished
visitors. On the platform with the President's
party were Miss Florence Barker, first President Woman's
Relief Corps; Mrs. Annie Wittenmyer, National President;
Miss Clara Barton, President Red Cross Association;
Mrs. Mary E. Knowles, Massachusetts Department
President; Mrs. Cheney, National Secretary; Mrs. Lynch,
National Treasurer; Mrs. Nichols, National Inspector of
the Relief Corps; Department Commander T. S. Clarkson,
Nebraska; Department Commander P. H. Darling, Ohio;
Governor Brackett and Congressman McKinley. George
H. Innis, Commander Massachusetts Department, welcomed
the visiting comrades. Other speakers were General
Sherman, Commander-in-Chief Alger, and Vice-President
Morton.
General Harrison was introduced as Comrade Harrison,[230]President of the United States, and was greeted with
tremendous applause. He spoke as follows:
Mr. Chairman and Comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic—I
had impressions both pleasurable and painful as I looked upon
the great procession of veterans which swept through the streets of
this historic capital to-day; pleasurable in the contemplation of
so many faces of those who shared together the perils and glories of
the great struggle for the Union; sensations of a mournful sort as
I thought how seldom we should meet again. Not many times more
here. As I have stood in the great national cemetery at Arlington
and have seen those silent battalions of the dead, I have thought
how swiftly the reaper is doing his work and how soon in the
scattered cemeteries of the land the ashes of all the soldiers of
the great war shall be gathered to honored graves. And yet I could
not help but feel that in the sturdy tread of those battalions there
was yet strength of heart and limb that would not be withheld
if a present peril should confront the Nation that you love.
[Applause.] And if Arlington is the death, we see to-day in the
springing step of those magnificent battalions of the Sons of
Veterans the resurrection. [Applause.] They are coming on to
take our places, the Nation will not be defenceless when we are
gone, but those who have read about the firesides of the veterans'
homes, in which they have been born and reared, the lessons
of patriotism and the stories of heroism will come fresh armed to
any conflict that may confront us in the future. [Applause.]
And so to-night we may gather from this magnificent spectacle
a fresh and strong sense of security for the permanency of our
country and our free institutions. I thought it altogether proper
that I should take a brief furlough from official duties at Washington
to mingle with you here to-day as a comrade [applause], because
every President of the United States must realize that the
strength of the Government, its defence in war, the army that is
to muster under its banner when our Nation is assailed, is to be
found here in the masses of our people. [Applause and cries of
"Good!"] And so, as my furlough is almost done, and the train
is already waiting that must bear me back to Washington, I can
only express again the cordial, sincere, and fraternal interest which
I feel this day in meeting you all. I can only hope that God will
so order the years that are left to you that for you and those who
are dear to you they may be ordered in all gentleness and sweetness,
in all prosperity and success, and that, when at last the comrades
who survive you shall wrap the flag of the Union about your[231]body and bear it to the grave, you may die in peace and in the
hope of a glorious resurrection! [Applause.]
Nearly1,000 veterans from the several G. A. R. posts
of Altoona, Tyronne, and Holidaysburg visited Cresson on
September 13, 1890, for the purpose of paying their respects
to President Harrison. General Ekin and Col. Theo.
Burchfield headed the delegation. Other prominent veterans
were Post Commanders Painter, Beighel, Lewis, and
Calvin; J. C. Walters, W. H. Fentiman, Rob't Howe,
Maj. John R. Garden, George Kuhn, William Aiken,
Oliver Sponsler, Wm. Guyer, Hon. J. W. Curry, Capt.
Joseph W. Gardner, and ex-Mayor Breth, of Altoona.
The President received the veterans at the Mountain
House. After the reception J. D. Hicks delivered a congratulatory
address on behalf of the veterans.
General Harrison, speaking from the balcony of the
hotel, warmly thanked his comrades for their good wishes,
and in mentioning the events of the war referred feelingly
to the tragic death of the great Lincoln and the memorable
words of Garfield on that occasion. His reference to the
Constitution and the flag, and the love of the people for
them, elicited a hearty response. He concluded as follows:
"Now, my comrades, who have suffered and still suffer
for your country, I wish in this world all good to you and
your dear ones, and in the world to come joy everlasting."
Duringthe stay of the President and his family at Cresson
Springs in September, 1890, they made an excursion
through the celebrated Clearfield coal regions, under the
guidance of Frank L. Sheppard, General Superintendent of
the Pennsylvania Railroad, Geo. W. Boyd, Ass't Gen'l Pas[232]senger
Agent, Gen. D. H. Hastings, and S. S. Blair. The
party comprised the President and Mrs. Harrison, Mr. and
Mrs. J. R. McKee, Mrs. Dimmick, and Miss Alice Sanger,
accompanied by Hon. John Patton, of Curwensville, Mr.
and Mrs. W. H. Dill, of Clearfield, and F. N. Barksdale.
The first point visited was Osceola, where 5,000 people
tendered the President a rousing reception. The Committee
of Reception were Geo. M. Brisbin, D. R. Good, R. J.
Walker, T. C. Heims, and J. R. Paisley. The veterans
of McLarren Post, G. A. R., acted as an escort through
the town from one depot to the other. The President
briefly thanked the veterans and citizens for extending
him such a cordial reception.
Arrivedat Houtzdale, about noon Saturday, the President
and his party were welcomed by an assemblage numbering
fully 10,000. They were met at Osceola by an escort
committee consisting of G. W. Dickey, Abe Feldman,
Julius Viebahn, Thos. Rolands, B. W. Hess, W. E. Meek,
W. C. Davis, W. B. Hamilton, J. V. Henderson, J. B.
McGrath, James White, D. W. Smith, John Charlton,
W. H. Patterson, and Thomas Byers.
All work in the mines and stores was suspended for the
day, and the visit of the Chief Magistrate was celebrated
with a grand parade and demonstration directed by Chief
Burgess John Argyle, aided by the G. A. R. veterans.
The President was received by the following committee of
prominent citizens: W. Irvin Shaw, Esq., of the Clearfield
County Bar; W. C. Langsford, Alex. Monteith, John
F. Farrell, Geo. P. Jones, Joseph Delehunt, Harry Roach,
Ad. Hanson, S. T. Henderson, R. R. Fleming, and E. J.
Duffy. The veterans of Wm. H. Kinkead Post acted as
a guard of honor to the President during the parade.
A notable incident of the demonstration was the recep[233]tion
by the children of the parochial school. After the
parade the formal reception of the distinguished visitors
took place in the presence of the great assemblage. John
F. Farrell presided, and introduced Chairman W. I. Shaw,
who delivered an eloquent address of welcome on behalf of
the citizens.
My Fellow-citizens—I beg to assure you that I very highly appreciate
your cordial welcome. I did not need the assurance of him
who has spoken in your name that we are welcome in this home
of profit and industry. As I have passed along the streets, and as
I now look into your eyes, I have read welcome in every face. I
do not regard this greeting as personal. How can it be, since you
look into my face as I into yours for the first time? I assume that
in this demonstration you are evidencing your loyalty and fidelity
to the Government of which we are all citizens.
You welcome me as one who, for the time being by your choice,
is charged with the execution of the law. It is a great thing to be
a citizen of this country, and the privilege has its corresponding
obligations. This Government can never be wrecked by the treason
or fault of those who for the time are placed in public position so
long as the people are true to the principles of the Government and
to the flag. [Applause.] Set your love upon the flag and that
which it represents. Be ready, if occasion should call, to defend
it, as my brave comrades did in the time of its greatest peril.
Honor it in peace, cherish your loyal institutions, civil and educational;
maintain social order in your community, let every one
have respect for the rights and privileges of others while asserting
his own.
These are the springs of our national and social life. If these
springs are kept pure and strong the great river they form will
ever flow on in purity and majesty. If local interests are carefully
preserved the general good is secured, and all our people, each in
his own place—the place where he labors, the place where he lives,
the roof under which his family is sheltered—will continue to
enjoy the benison of liberty in the fear of God.
To every one of you, those who come from the village shops,
those who come from the mines and every vocation of life to join
in this welcome, let me declare that I have no other purpose as
President of the United States than to so administer my office as to
promote the general good of all our people. [Great applause.]
Otherpoints visited were Clearfield, where the veterans
of Lamar Post and Colonel Barrett at the head of a committee
received the distinguished excursionists. At Curwensville
the party became the guests of A. E. Patton,
and the President shook hands with 1,500 residents.
Philipsburg was reached at 3P.M.The entire population
of the town welcomed the President. The Reception
Committee comprised Major H. C. Warfel, Hon. Chester
Munson, J. B. Childs, O. P. Jones, S. S. Crissman, W.
E. Irwin, Dr. T. B. Potter, Capt. J. H. Boring, M. G.
Lewis, Henry Lehman, H. K. Grant, Al. Jones, W. T.
Bair, Geo. W. Wythes, A. B. Herd, John Nuttall, and
A. J. Graham. The President and Mrs. Harrison were
driven through the city, which was elaborately decorated.
Returning to the station Mayor Warfel introduced the
President, who said:
Citizens of Philipsburg—I thank you for this very cordial expression
of your esteem. You must excuse my not addressing you at
any length because of the very limited time at our disposal. I
again thank you.
Onthe morning of October 6, 1890, President Harrison
left Washington to attend the reunion of the First Brigade,
Twentieth Army Corps, at Galesburg, Ill., and to visit
points in Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Indiana. He was
accompanied by Secretary Tracy, Gen. Charles H. Grosvenor,
Private Secretary Halford, Marshal Daniel M.
Ransdell, Capt. Wm. M. Meredith, Gen. T. J. Morgan,
and E. F. Tibbott, stenographer.
Thetrip through Virginia was uneventful. At Staunton
the President was serenaded, and among those who met
him were ex-Congressman Desendorf, of Virginia, and
David Stewart, of Indianapolis. Clifton Forge was reached
at twilight, and nearly 1,000 residents heartily cheered the
President and called for a speech. In response he said:
My Friends—I hope you will excuse me from making a speech.
I have travelled for the first time over the Chesapeake and Ohio
Railroad, and I have noticed with great interest and pleasure the
development which is being made along the road of the mineral
resources of the State of Virginia. What I have seen moves me to
offer my sincere congratulations on what you have already accomplished,
and what is surely in store for you if you but make use
of your resources and opportunities. [Cheers.]
AtCincinnati, Tuesday morning, the party was joined
by Archibald Eaton, the President's nephew; Col. W. B.
Shattuc, Col. John C. New, and a committee of escort
from Lawrenceburg, comprising Gen. Thomas J. Lucas,
Archibald Shaw, John O. Cravens, John K. Thompson,
and Valentine J. Koehler. Near North Bend, Ohio, the
old Harrison homestead was reached, and the train came
to a stop just abreast the house in which Benjamin Harrison
was born, and but a few yards from the white shaft
that marks the tomb of his illustrious ancestor, President
William Henry Harrison. The occasion was not for
words, and as the President passed to the rear platform he
was unaccompanied by the rest of the party, who left him
to the memories that the scenes of his childhood and
youth called forth.
Arrived at Lawrenceburg the President was visibly
affected at meeting many old friends and neighbors of[236]years ago. Among the leading citizens who welcomed
him were: John Isherwood, Z. Heustes, Peter Braun,
Dr. J. D. Gatch, Frank R. Dorman, D. W. C. Fitch, J.
H. Burkham, W. H. Rucker, Wm. Probasco, Louis Adler,
H. G. Kidd, John S. Dorman, John B. Garnier, A. D.
Cook, Chas. Decker, John F. Cook, Dr. T. C. Craig,
C. J. B. Ragin, J. E. Larimer, D. E. Sparks, and Capt.
John Shaw; also, M. C. Garber, of Madison, Robert
Cain, of Brookville, and Alfred Shaw, of Vevay, Ind.
The President addressed the large assembly in a voice
heavy with emotion. He said:
My Friends—I want to thank you very cordially for this greeting.
All the scenes about here are very familiar to me. This town
of Lawrenceburg is the first village of my childish recollections,
and as I approached it this morning, past the earliest home of my
recollections, the home in which my childhood and early manhood
were spent, memories crowded in upon me that were very full of interest,
very full of pleasure, and yet full of sadness. They bring back
to me those who once made the old home very dear, the most precious
spot on earth. I have passed with bowed head the place where they
rest. We are here in our generation, with the work of those who have
gone before upon us. Let us see, each of us, that in the family, in
the neighborhood, and in the State, we do at least with equal courage,
and grace, and kindness, the work which was so bravely,
kindly, and graciously done by those who filled our places fifty years
ago. Now, for I must hurry on, to these old friends, and to these
new friends who have come in since Lawrenceburg was familiar
to me, I extend again my hearty thanks for this welcome, and beg,
in parting, to introduce the only member of my Cabinet who accompanies
me, General Tracy, Secretary of the Navy.
AtNorth Vernon, Jennings County, many old acquaintances
greeted the President, among them J. C. Cope, John
Fable, P. C. McGannon, and others. Acknowledging the
repeated cheers of the assembly, the President said:
My Friends—I am very glad to see you, and very much obliged
to you for your pleasurable greeting. It is always a pleasure to
see my old Indiana friends. We have had this morning a delightful
ride across the southern part of the State, one that has given
me a great deal of refreshment and pleasure. [Cheers.] Let me
again assure you that I am very much obliged to you for this evidence
of your friendship. I hope you will excuse me from further
speech on this occasion. It gives me pleasure now, my fellow-citizens,
to introduce to you General Tracy, of New York, the Secretary
of the Navy, who accompanies me on this trip. [Cheers.]
AtSeymour, Jackson County, 2,000 citizens gave evidence
of General Harrison's popularity in that town.
Among the prominent residents who welcomed him were
Hon. W. K. Marshall, Louis Schneck, Travis Carter, Ph.
Wilhelm, W. F. Peters, J. B. Morrison, R. F. White, S.
E. Carter, John A. Ross, John A. Weaver, L. M. Mains,
John A. Goodale, Theo. B. Ridlen, and V. H. Monroe.
After he had introduced Secretary Tracy, the President
said:
My Friends—I feel that I ought to thank you for your friendly
greeting this beautiful morning. It is a pleasure indeed to me to
greet so many of you. Again I thank you for this welcome. A
request has just been handed me that I speak a few minutes to the
school children here assembled. I scarcely know what to say to
them, except that I have a great interest in them, and the country
has a great interest in them. Those who, like myself, have passed
the meridian of life realize more than younger men that the places
we now hold and the responsibilities we now carry in society and
in all social and business relations must devolve upon those who
are now in the school. Our State has magnificently provided for
their education, so that none of them need be ignorant, and I am
sure that in these happy homes the fathers and mothers are not
neglecting their duties, but are instilling into these young minds
morality and respect for the law which must crown intelligence in
order to make them.
Thecitizens of Shoals, the county seat of Martin County,
gave the President a most cordial reception. Prominent
among those friends who welcomed him were R. E. Hunt,
J. A. Chenoweth, J. P. Albaugh, J. B. Freeman, J. T.
Rogers, M. Shirey, S. P. Yeune, H. Q. Houghton, James
Mahany, C. H. Mohr, S. N. Gwin, F. J. Masten, C. S.
Dobbins, and N. H. Matsinger.
Responding to their cheers and calls the President said:
My Fellow-citizens—I am very glad to see you. My trip this
morning is more like a holiday than I have had for a long time. I
am glad to see the cordiality of your welcome. It makes me feel
that I am still held somewhat in the esteem of the people whose
friendship I so very much covet and desire to retain. [Cheers.]
Itwas an agreeable surprise to the President to find
several thousand people awaiting an opportunity to greet
him at the town of Sullivan. Of prominent townsmen
there were present J. H. Clugage, G. W. Buff, Rob't H.
Crowder, John T. Hays, C. P. Lacey, C. F. Briggs, O.
H. Crowder, S. Goodman, R. B. Mason, W. A. Bell, Joseph
Hayden, John H. Dickerson, and R. F. Knotts.
In answer to repeated calls for a speech the President
said:
My Friends—Some of you have requested that I would give you
a little talk. The range of things that I can say on an occasion like
this is very limited, but one thing, though it seems to involve
repetition, I can say to you very heartily and very sincerely: I am
very glad to again look into the faces of my Indiana friends. I
trust I have friends that are not in Indiana, but my earliest and
my best are here. Again I thank you. [Cheers.]
Theprincipal demonstration of the day was at Terre
Haute, where fully 10,000 people greeted the President.
The following Reception Committee escorted the party from
Vincennes: Hon. W. R. McKeen, H. Hulman, Sr., Judge
C. F. McNutt, George W. Faris, Samuel Huston, A. Herz,
W. C. Isbell, R. A. Campbell, Dr. Rob't Van Valzah, Jacob
D. Early, George E. Pugh, A. G. Austin, F. E. Benjamin,
and B. G. Hudnut.En routeto the speaker's stand
every bell and steam whistle in the city added its tribute
to the enthusiasm of the occasion. This unique Hoosier
welcome was arranged by D. C. Greiner. Other leading
citizens participating prominently in the reception were:
D. W. Minshall, N. Filbeck, Judge B. E. Rhoades, S. C.
Beach, J. S. Tally, Senator Bischawsky, G. W. Bement,
Jay Cummings, Geo. M. Allen, and P. S. Westfall.
Mayor Frank C. Danaldson made the welcoming address,
and concluded by introducing President Harrison,
who said:
Mr. Mayor, Fellow-citizens of Indiana, Ladies and Gentlemen—I
very heartily appreciate this large gathering assembled to greet me.
I very heartily appreciate the welcome which your kind and animated
faces, as well as the spoken words of the chief officer of your
city, have extended to me. I have known this pretty city for more
than thirty years, and have watched its progress and growth. It
has always been the home of some of my most cherished personal
friends, and I am glad to know that your city is in an increasing
degree prosperous, and your people contented and happy. I am
glad to know that the local industries which have been established
in your midst are to-day busy in producing their varied products,
and that these find a ready market at remunerative prices. I was
told as we approached your city that there was not an idle wheel
in Terre Haute. It is very pleasant to know that this prosperity is
so generally shared by all our people. Hopefulness, and cheer, and
courage tend to bring and maintain good times.
We differ widely in our views of public politics, but I trust
every one of us is devoted to the flag which represents the unity[240]and power of our country and to the best interests of the people,
as we are given to see and understand those interests. [Applause.]
We are in the enjoyment of the most perfect system of government
that has ever been devised for the use of men. We are under fewer
restraints; the individual faculties and liberties have wider range
here than in any other land. Here a sky of hope is arched over
the head of every ambitious, industrious, and aspiring young man.
There are no social conditions; there are no unneeded legal restrictions.
Let us continue to cherish these institutions and to maintain
them in their best development. Let us see that as far as our
influence can bring it to pass they are conducted for the general
good. [Applause.]
It gives me pleasure to bring into your city to-day one who is the
successor as the head of the Navy Department of that distinguished
citizen of Indiana who is especially revered and loved by all the
people of Terre Haute, but is also embraced in the wider love of
all the citizens of Indiana—Col. Richard W. Thompson. Let me
present to you Gen. Benjamin F. Tracy, of New York, the Secretary
of the Navy. [Cheers.]
Danvillewas reached at 6P.M.The roar of cannon
sounded a hearty welcome to the Prairie State. Fully
10,000 people were assembled around the pavilion erected
near the station. Among the prominent residents who
received the President on the part of the citizens were:
Hon. Joseph G. Cannon, Mayor W. R. Lawrence, Justice
J. W. Wilkin, of the Supreme Court of Illinois, Col.
Samuel Stansbury, H. P. Blackburn, W. R. Jewell, M.
J. Barger, W. C. Tuttle, Henry Brand, and Capt. J. G.
Hull.
Congressman Cannon introduced the President, who
said:
My Fellow-citizens—I regret that the time of our arrival and
the brief time we can give you should make it so inconvenient for
you who have assembled here to greet us. Yet, though the darkness
shuts out your faces, I cannot omit to acknowledge with the
most heartfelt gratitude the enthusiastic greeting of this large as[241]sembly
of my fellow-citizens. It is quite worth while, I think, for
those who are charged with great public affairs now and then to
turn aside from the routine of official duties to look into the faces
of the people. [Applause.] It is well enough that all public officers
should be reminded that under our republican institutions the
repository of all power, the originator of all policy, is the people
of the United States. [Great applause.] I have had the pleasure
of visiting this rich and prosperous section of your great State
before, and am glad to notice that, if the last year has not yielded
an average return to your farms, already the promise of the coming
year is seen in your well-tilled fields. Let me thank you again
and bid you good-night. [Great applause.]
AtUrbana, Ill., Secretary Tracy addressed several thousand
residents. At Champaign the citizens were attended
by the students of the University of Illinois, who received
the President with their college cheer. Among the leading
citizens who participated in welcoming the Chief
Executive were Dr. L. S. Wilcox, John W. Spalding,
F. K. Robinson, P. W. Woody, H. H. Harris, J. L. Ray,
T. J. Smith, H. Swannell, Ozias Riley, A. P. Cunningham,
J. B. Harris, Edward Bailey, Solon Philbrick, C.
J. Sabin, W. S. Maxwell, L. W. Faulkner, J. W. Mulliken,
Judge C. B. Smith, W. P. Lockwood, W. A. Heath,
Geo. F. Beardsley, Hon. Abel Harwood, W. H. Munhall,
A. W. Spalding, and C. M. Sherfey.
My Good Friends—It is very evident that there is a large representation
here of the Greek societies. [Cheers.] I thank you for
this greeting. We are on our way to Galesburg to unite with my
old comrades in arms of the First Brigade, Third Division, Twentieth
Army Corps, in a reunion. I had not expected here, or at
any other intermediate point on the journey, to make addresses,
but I cannot fail to thank these young gentlemen from the University
of Illinois for the interest their presence gives to this meeting.
Your professors, no doubt, give you all needed admonition
and advice, and you will, I am sure, thank me for not adding to
your burdens. Good-night. [Cheers.]
Thethird day of the President's journey found him in
Peoria, where he was warmly welcomed by Mayor Charles
C. Clarke at the head of the following committee of prominent
citizens: Alexander G. Tyng, Jr., President Board of
Trade; John D. Soules, President Travelling Men's Association;
editor Eugene Baldwin, and Hon. Julius S. Starr.
Miss Elsie Leslie Lyde, the child actress, on behalf of the
citizens and the Grand Army, presented the President with
a beautiful bouquet, which the Chief Magistrate acknowledged
by kissing the little orator in the presence of the
great assemblage.
Mayor Clarke introduced the President, who spoke as
follows:
My Fellow-citizens—It is not possible that I should introduce this
morning any serious theme. I have greatly enjoyed this trip
through my own State and yours, sisters in loyalty and sacrifice for
the Union, sisters also in prosperity and honor. I find myself
simply saying thank you, but with an increasing sense of the kindness
of the people. If anything could add to the solemn sense of
responsibility which my official oath places upon me, it would be
these evidences of friendliness and confidence. The great mass of
the people of this country are loyal, loving, dutiful citizens, ready
to support every faithful officer in the discharge of his duties and
to applaud every honest effort for their good. It is a source of
great strength to know this, and this morning, not less from this
bright sunshine and this crisp Illinois air than from these kindly
faces, I draw an inspiration to do what I can, the very best I can,
to promote the good of the people of the United States. I go to-day
to meet with some comrades of your State who stood with me
in the army of the great Union for the defence of the flag. I beg
now to thank these comrades of Peoria and this company of National
Guards and all these friends, and you, Mr. Mayor and gentlemen
of the Reception Committee, for this kindly greeting, and to
say that I have great satisfaction in knowing the people of this
community are very prosperous. May that prosperity increase
until every citizen, even the humblest, shares it. May peace, social
order, and the blessing of God abide in every house is my parting
wish for you. [Cheers.]
Duringthe trip from Peoria the President and Secretary
Tracy rode a goodly portion of the distance on the locomotive
with Engineer Frank Hilton, a veteran who served
in the President's old command. Galesburg, the principal
objective point of the journey, was reached at noon on
October 8, where 10,000 patriotic citizens greeted their arrival.
Mayor Loren Stevens, at the head of the following
committee, received and welcomed the President: Forrest
F. Cooke, President of the Day, Judge A. A. Smith, Hon.
H. M. Sisson, Hon. O. F. Price, Maj. H. H. Clay, Z. Beatty,
Henry Emerich, James M. Ayres, Francis A. Free, Gersh
Martin, F. C. Rice, C. D. Hendryx, Gen. F. C. Smith, John
Bassett, R. W. Sweeney, Sam'l D. Harsh, Colonel Phelps,
Hon. Philip S. Post, Rev. John Hood, Rev. G. J. Luckey,
H. A. Drake, Matthias O'Brien, K. Johnson, C. P. Curtis,
H. C. Miles, Capt. E. O. Atchinson, and Mr. Weeks. Fully
2,000 veterans participated in the parade; also the local
militia, commanded by Captain Elder and Lieutenants
Ridgley and Tompkins; Company D, Fifth Regiment, from
Quincy, Capt. F. B. Nichols, Lieutenants Treet and Whipple;
Company H, Sixth Regiment, Monmouth, Capt. D.
E. Clarke, Lieutenants Shields and Turnbull; Company
I, Sixth Regiment, Morrison, Capt. W. F. Colebaugh,
Lieutenants Griffin and Baker.
Arriving at the Court-House Park, Mayor Stevens delivered
the address of welcome. President Harrison responded
as follows:
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—The magnitude of this vast assemblage
to-day fills me with surprise and with consternation as
I am called to make this speech to you. I came here to meet with
the survivors of my old brigade. I came here with the expectation
that the day would chiefly be spent in their companionship and
in the exchange of those cordial greetings which express the fondness
and love which we bear to each other; but to my surprise I[244]have found that here to-day the First Brigade, for the first time
in its history, has been captured. One or two of them I have been
able to take by the hand, a few more of them I have seen as they
marched by the reviewing stand, but they seemed to have been
swallowed up in this vast concourse of their associate comrades
and their fellow-citizens of Illinois. I hope there may yet be a
time during the day when I shall be able to take each by the hand,
and to assure them that in the years of separation since muster-out
day I have borne them all sacredly in my affectionate remembrance.
They were a body of representative soldiers, coming from
these great central States of Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, and as
the borders of those States touch in friendly exchange, so the
elbows of these great heroes and patriots touched in the great
struggle for the Union. Who shall say who was chiefest? Who
shall assign honors where all were brave? The distinction that
Illinois may claim in connection with this organization is that,
given equal courage, fidelity, and loyalty to every man, Illinois
furnished three-fifths of the brigade. But possibly I should withhold
here those suggestions which come to me, and which will be
more appropriate when I meet them in a separate organization.
I have been greatly impressed with this assemblage to-day in this
beautiful city, in this rich and prosperous State. The thought had
occurred to me, and the more I thought of it the more sure I was
of the conclusion, that nowhere on the face of the earth except in
the United States of America, under no flag that kisses any breeze,
could such an assemblage as this have been gathered. Who are
these? Look into these faces; see the evidences of contentment,
thrift, prosperity, and intelligence that we read in all these faces.
They have come by general summons from all these homes, of
village, city, and farm, and here they are to-day the strength and
rock of our security as a Nation; the people who furnished an
invincible army when its flag was in danger; the people upon
whose enlightened consciences and God-fearing hearts this country
may rest with unguarded hope. Where is the ultimate distribution
of governmental powers? How can all the efforts of President,
cabinet and judges, and armies, even, serve to maintain this
country, to continue it in its great career of prosperity, if there
were lacking this great law-abiding, liberty-loving people by whom
they are chosen to these important offices? It is the great thought
of our country that men shall be governed as little as possible, but
full liberty shall be given to individual effort, and that the restraints
of law shall be reserved for the turbulent and disorderly.
What is it that makes our communities peaceful? What is it that[245]makes these farm-houses safe? It is not the policemen. It is not
the soldiers. It is this great and all-pervading American sentiment
that exalts the law, that stands with threatening warning to
the law-breaker, and, above all, that pervading thought that gives
to every man what is his and claims only what is our own. The
war was only fought that the law might not lose its sanction and
its sanctity. If we had suffered that loss, dismemberment would
have been a lesser one. But we taught those who resisted law and
taught the world that the great sentiment of loyalty to our written
laws was so strong in this country that no associations, combinations,
or conspiracies could overturn it. Our Government will
not fail to go on in this increased career of development, in population,
in wealth, in intelligence, in morality, so long as we hold
up everywhere in the local communities and in the Nation this
great thought that every man shall keep the law which secures
him in his own rights, and shall not trample upon the rights of
another. Let us divide upon tariff and finance, but let there never
be a division among the American people upon this question, that
nowhere shall the law be overturned in the interests of anybody.
If it fails of beneficent purpose, which should be the object of all
law, then let us modify it, but while it is a law let us insist that
it shall be obeyed. When we turn from that and allow any other
standard of living to be set up, where is your security, where is
mine, when some one else makes convenience more sacred, more
powerful than the law of the land?
I believe to-day that the great rock of our security is this deeply
imbedded thought in the American heart that does not, as in many
of our Spanish-American countries, give its devotion to the man,
but to the law, the Constitution, and to the flag. So that in that
hour of gloom, when that richest contribution of all gems that
Illinois has ever set in our Nation's diadem, Abraham Lincoln,
and in that hour of the consummation of his work, dies by the
hand of the assassin, Garfield, who was to meet a like fate, might
say to the trembling and dismayed people: "Lincoln is dead, but
the Government at Washington still lives."
My fellow-citizens, to all those who, through your Mayor, have
extended me their greeting, to all who are here assembled, I return
my most sincere thanks. I do not look upon such assemblages
without profound emotion. They touch me, and I believe they
teach me, and I am sure that the lessons are wholesome lessons.
We have had here to-day this procession of veterans, aged and
feeble many of them. That is retrospective. That is part of the
great story of the past, written in glorious letters on the firmament[246]that is spread above the world. And in these sweet children who
have followed we read the future. How sweet it was to see them
bearing in their infant hands these same banners that those veterans
carried amid the shot and battle and dying of men! I had
occasion at the centennial celebration of the inauguration of Washington
in New York, being impressed by the great display of
national colors, to make a suggestion that the flag should be taken
into the schoolhouses, and I am glad to know that in that State
there is daily a little drill of the children that pays honor to the
flag. But, my friends, the Constitution provides that I shall
annually give information to Congress of the state of the Union
and make such recommendations as I may think wise, and it has
generally been understood, I think, that this affirmative provision
contains a negative and implies that the President is to give no
one except Congress any information as to the state of the Union,
and that he shall especially make no suggestions that can be in
any shape misconstrued.
I confess that it would give me great pleasure, if the occasion
were proper, to give you some information as to the state of the
Union as I see it, and to make some suggestions as to what I think
would be wise as affecting the state of the Union. But I would
not on an occasion like this, when I am greeted here by friends,
fellow-citizens of all shades of thought in politics and in the
Church, say a word that could mar the harmony of this great occasion.
I trust we are all met here together to-day as loyal-loving
American citizens, and that over all our divisions and differences
there is this great arch of love and loyalty binding us together.
And now you will excuse me from further speech when I have
said again that I am profoundly grateful to the people of Galesburg
and this vicinity, and to these, my comrades in arms, who have
so warmly opened their arms to welcome me to-day. [Cheers.]
Reunion First Brigade, Third Division, Twentieth Army Corps.
In the afternoon General Harrison attended the reunion
of the First Brigade Association, of which he is President.
This brigade was the General's command in the late war,
and comprised the Seventieth Indiana Regiment, Seventy-ninth
Ohio, One Hundred and Second, One Hundred
and Fifth, and One Hundred and Twenty-ninth Illinois.
Many veterans were present from these regiments. Among
the prominent participants were: Generals Daniel Dustin[247]and E. F. Dutton, Sycamore, Ill.; Gen. F. C. Smith, Galesburg;
Gen. A. W. Doane, Wilmington, Ohio; General
Miles, Col. H. C. Corbin, H. H. Carr, N. E. Gray, Dr. P.
L. McKinnie, and Colonel Sexton, Chicago; H. H. McDowell,
Pontiac; Capt. Edward L. Patterson, Cleveland;
Capt. F. E. Scott, Brokenbow, Neb.; Capt. J. T. Merritt,
Aledo; Major M. G. McLain, Indianapolis; Capt. J. E.
Huston, Clearfield, Iowa; James M. Ayers, R. M. Smock,
Colonel Mannon, Major Jack Burst, Wm. Eddleman, C. D.
Braidemeyer, Capt. T. U. Scott, Capt. T. S. Rogers, C. P.
Curtis, Captain Bodkins, and others. Congressman Thos.
J. Henderson and many of the above-mentioned officers
made brief speeches during the reunion. General Dustin
occupied the chair pending the election of officers for the
ensuing year. General Harrison's re-election as President
of the Association was carried amid cheers, and as he
appeared to assume the presiding chair the veterans gave
him a rousing reception.
The President then addressed the brigade as follows:
Comrades—The object of my visit to Galesburg was this meeting
which we are to have now. I should not, I think, have been persuaded
to make this trip except for the pleasure which I expected
to find in meeting the men of the old brigade, from most of whom
I have been separated since the muster-out day. We have had a
great demonstration, one very full of interest, on the streets and
in the park, but I think we are drawn a little closer in this meeting
and understand each other a little better than in the larger
assemblages of which we have made a part. It is very pleasant
for me to see so many here. I cannot recall the names of all of
you. Time has wrought its changes upon the faces of us all.
You recognize me because there were not so many colonels as there
were soldiers—fortunately, perhaps, for the country. [Laughter.]
I saw you as individuals in the brigade line when it was drawn
up either for parade or battle. It is quite natural, therefore, and
I trust it will not be held against me, that you should have a better
recollection of my features than I can possibly have of yours.
And yet some of you I recall and all of you I love. [Applause.]
When you were associated in a brigade in 1862 we were all somewhat
new to military duties and life. The officers as well as the[248]men had come together animated by a common purpose from every
pursuit in life. We were not so early in the field as some of our
comrades. We yield them the honor of longer service, but I think
we may claim for ourselves that when our hands were lifted to
take the enlistment oath there was no inducement for any man to
go into the army under any expectation that he was entering on a
holiday. In the early days of the war men thought or hoped it
would be brief. They did not measure its extent or duration.
They did not at all rightly estimate the awful sacrifices that were
to be made before peace with honor was assured.
I well remember an incident of the early days of volunteering at
Indianapolis, when the first companies in response to the first call
of President Lincoln came hurrying to the capital. Among the
first to arrive was one from Lafayette, under the command of
Capt. Chris. Miller. They came in tumultuously and enthusiastic
for the fight. These companies were organized into regiments,
which one by one were sent into West Virginia or other fields of service.
It happened that the regiment to which my friend Miller was
assigned was the last to leave the State. I met him one day on
the street, and a more mad and despondent soldier I never saw.
He was not absolutely choice in the use of his language—all soldiers
were not. I think the First Brigade was an exception. [Laughter.]
He was swearing like a pirate over the disgrace that had befallen
him and his associates, growing out of the fact that he was absolutely
certain that the war would be over before they got into the
field, and left in camp a stranded regiment, having no part in
putting down the rebellion.
Well, his day came presently, and he was ordered to West Virginia,
and among the first of those who, under the fire of the enemy
at Rich Mountain, received a bullet through his body was Capt.
Chris. Miller. When these regiments of ours were enlisted we
were not apprehensive that the war would be over before we had
an adequate share of it. We were pretty certain we would all
have enough before we were through. The clouds were dark in
those days of '62. McClellan was shut up in the Peninsula; Buell
was coming back from Alabama; Kirby Smith was entering
through Cumberland Gap, and everything seemed to be discouraging.
I think I may claim for these men of Illinois, and these men
of Indiana and of Ohio—if some of them are here to meet with us
to-day—that when they enlisted there was no other motive than
pure, downright patriotism, and there was no misunderstanding of
the serious import of the work on which they entered. [Applause.]
Those early days in which we were being transformed from ci[249]vilians
into soldiers were full of trial and hardship. The officers
were sometimes bumptious and unduly severe—I am entering a
plea in my own behalf now. [Laughter.] The soldiers had not
yet got to understand why a camp guard should be established,
why they should not be at perfect liberty to go to town as they
were when on the farm and the day's work was over. It was supposed
that an army was composed of so many men, but we had
not learned at that time that it was absolutely necessary that all
those men should be at the same place at the same time, and that
they could not be scattered over the neighborhood. There were a
good many trials of that sort while the men were being made soldiers
and the officers were learning their duties, and to know the proper
margin between the due liberty of the individual and the necessary
restraint of discipline. But those days were passed soon, and they
passed the sooner when the men went into active duties. Camp
duties were always irksome and troublesome, but when they were
changed for the active duties of the march and field there was less
need of restraint.
I always noticed there was no great need of a camp guard after
the boys had marched twenty-five miles. They did not need so
much watching at night. Then the serious time came when sickness
devastated us and disease swept its dread swath, and that
dreadful progress of making soldiers was passed through when diseases
which should have characterized childhood prostrated and
destroyed men. Then there came out of all this, after the sifting
out of those who were weak and incapable, of those who could not
stand this acclimating process, that body of tough, strong men,
ready for the march and fight, that made up the great armies
which under Grant and Sherman and Sheridan carried the flag to
triumph.
The survivors of some of them are here to-day, and whatever else
has come to us in life, whether honor or disappointment, I do not
think there are any of us—not me, I am sure—who would to-day
exchange the satisfaction, the heart comfort we have in having
been a part of the great army that subdued the rebellion, that
saved the country, the Constitution, and the flag. [Applause.] If
I were asked to exchange it for any honor that has come to me, I
would lay down any civil office rather than surrender the satisfaction
I have in having been an humble partaker with you in that
great war. [Applause.] Who shall measure it? Well, generations
hence, when this country, which had 30,000,000, now 64,000,000,
has become 100,000,000, when these institutions of ours grow and
develop and spread, and homes in which happiness and comfort[250]have their abiding place, then we may begin to realize, North
and South, what this work was. We but imperfectly see it now,
yet we have seen enough of the glory of the Lord to fill our souls
full of a quiet enthusiasm. [Applause.]
Here we are pursuing our different works in life to-day just as
when we stood on picket or on guard, just as in the front rank of
battle facing the foe—trying to do our part for the country. I
hope there is not a soldier here in whom the love of the flag has
died out. I believe there is not one in whose heart it is not a
growing passion. I think a great deal of the interest of the flag
we see among the children is because you have taught them what
the flag means. No one knows how beautiful it is when we see it
displayed here on this quiet October day, amid these quiet autumnal
scenes, who has not seen it when there was no other beautiful
thing to look upon. [Applause.] And in those long, tiresome
marches, in those hours of smoke and battle and darkness, what
was there that was beautiful except the starry banner that floated
over us? [Applause.]
Our country has grown and developed and increased in riches
until it is to-day marvellous among the nations of the earth,
sweeping from sea to sea, embracing almost every climate, touching
the tropics and the arctic, covering every form of product of
the soil, developing in skill in the mechanical arts, developing, I
trust and believe, not only in these material things which are
great, but not the greatest, but developing also in those qualities
of mind and heart, in morality, in the love of order, in sobriety,
in respect for the law, in a God-fearing disposition among the
people, in love for our country, in all these high and spiritual
things. I believe the soldiers in their places have made a large
contribution to all these things.
The assembling of our great army was hardly so marvellous as
its disbanding. In the olden time it was expected that a soldier
would be a brawler when the campaign was over. He was too
often a disturber. Those habits of violence which he had learned
in the field followed him to his home. But how different it was
in this war of ours. The army sprang into life as if by magic, on
the call of the martyred President—Illinois' greatest gift, as I have
said, to the Nation. They fought through the war, and they came
out of it without demoralization. They returned to the very pursuits
from which they had come. It seemed to one that it was like
the wrapping of snow which nature sometimes puts over the earth
in the winter season to protect and keep warm the vegetation
which is hidden under it, and which under the warm days of[251]spring melts and disappears, and settles into the earth to clothe it
with verdure and beauty and harvest. [Great cheering.]
After the public reception was concluded the President
and party participated in the laying of the corner-stone of
the Alumni Hall on the campus of Knox College. Dr.
Newton Bateman, president of the college, conducted the
exercises. Prof. Milton L. Comstock read a brief history
of Knox College, at the conclusion of which Dr. Adams
introduced President Harrison, who spoke as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—Speaking this morning in the open air,
which since my official isolation from campaigning has made my
voice unaccustomed to it, will make it impossible for me to speak
further at this time. I do not deem this ceremony at all out of
accord with the patriotic impulses which have stirred our hearts
to-day. Education was early in the thought of the framers of our
Constitution as one of the best, if not the only guarantee of their perpetuation.
Washington, as well as the founders of the venerable
and useful institution, appreciated and expressed his interest in
the establishment of institutions of learning. How shall one be a
safe citizen when citizens are rulers who are not intelligent? How
shall he understand those great questions which his suffrage must
adjudge without thorough intellectual culture in his youth? We are
here, then, to-day engaged in a patriotic work as we lay this
corner-stone of an institution that has had a great career of usefulness
in the past and is now entering upon a field of enlarged
usefulness. We lay this corner-stone and rededicate this institution
to truth, purity, loyalty, and a love of God.
In the evening the President attended a banquet tendered
him by Lombard and Knox chapters of Phi Delta Theta,
of which college fraternity General Harrison was a member
in his student days. At the President's table sat
Toastmaster Lester L. Silliman, of Lombard Chapter, with
General Miles, Generals Grosvenor, Morgan, and Post,
Mayor Stevens, Dr. Ayres, and Rev. Dr. Hood. Brother
Geo. W. Prince delivered the welcoming address on behalf[252]of the local chapters, to which the distinguished Phi brother,
President Harrison, arising amid great applause, responded.
After a few pleasant remarks regarding his
recollections of college life and his pleasure at meeting
again with the members of the Phi Delta Theta, he said:
My college associations were broken early in life, partly by necessity
and partly by choice; by necessity so far as the compulsion
to work for a living was upon me, and by choice in that I added to
my responsibility at an early date, so that it has not been my
pleasure often to meet with or sit about the banquet board with
members of this society. It gives me pleasure to meet with you
to-night. I feel the greatest sympathy with these young men who
are now disciplining their minds for the work of life. I would not
have them make these days too serious, and yet they are very full
of portent and promise. It is not inconsistent, I think, with the
joyfulness and gladness which pertains to youth that they shall have
some sense of the value of these golden days. They are days that
are to affect the whole future. If I were to select a watchword
that I would have every young man write above his door and on
his heart, it would be that good word "Fidelity." I know of no
better. The man who meets every obligation to the family, to
society, to the State, to his country, and his God, to the very best
measure of his strength and ability, cannot fail of that assurance
and quietness that comes of a good conscience, and will seldom fail
of the approval of his fellow-men, and will never fail of the reward
which is promised to faithfulness. Unfaithfulness and lack of
fidelity to duty, to work, and to obligation is the open door to all
that is disgraceful and degrading.
I want to thank you again, gentlemen, for this pleasant greeting,
and to ask you, after the rather exhaustive duties of this day, to
excuse me from further address and accept the best wishes of a
brother in the Phi Delta Theta organization. [Cheers.]
Later in the evening the President and party attended a
banquet given by the citizens in honor of the First Brigade.
It was a brilliant affair, conducted by the ladies of the
city, active among whom were Mrs. Geo. Lescher, Miss
Tillie Weeks, Miss Maude Stewart, Miss Winnie Hoover,
and Mrs. Whiffen. Mrs. George Gale had charge of the[253]table of honor, assisted by Mrs. Otto M. Smith and Miss
Louise Tryon. Gen. Philip S. Post was Master of Ceremonies
and presented General Harrison.
The President prologued his parting words with an incident
of a visit he made to a small town down the Potomac.
Although he was introduced as President all over
the town, no special attention was paid to him, and when
the local paper came out with a column and a half report
of the visit of the Chief Executive, the good people of the
town were astonished, but explained their lack of attention
by saying they thought Mr. Harrison was president of some
fishing club. Aside from jokes, said the President:
One serious word in leaving. This day in Galesburg I shall long
remember. The enthusiasm and the cordiality of the citizens, the
delicacy and kindness of their attention, have impressed me deeply.
I shall ever gratefully recollect Galesburg as a spot of especial
interest, as the place of the meeting of the old brigade. Comrades,
I hope to meet you again when my time is more my own, and on
several occasions like this to speak to you more familiarly, and to
recall this time. I have tried not to be stinted in my intercourse
with you, for I have wanted you to feel me warm and sincere. I
have expressed myself, but not as freely as I would if by ourselves,
or if I were but a private citizen or member of the brigade. But
I would say to you and all your families, to the wives that sit
here, to the wives and children that are at home, to those who
have gone out from your roof-tree to prepare homes, to your grand-children—and
I hope all of you have them—to one and all, I
extend the hearty sympathy and best wishes of the "old-timer"
you served so faithfully.
ThePresident's party left Galesburg the night of the
8th, arriving at Burlington at 10 o'clock, where about
8,000 people greeted them. The President was escorted to
the Commercial Club rooms, where Mayor Duncan, on
behalf of the city of Burlington, and P. M. Crapo, president
of the club, made addresses of welcome. A reception of[254]one hour's duration followed, during which President
Harrison shook hands with 3,000 callers. Ottumwa was
reached at 8 o'clock Thursday morning. A committee of
citizens, headed by Hon. J. G. Hutchison, met the President
at Galesburg. On arrival the President and his
brother, John Scott Harrison, were immediately driven to
the residence of their sister, Mrs. T. J. Devin, where they
passed the morning.
At the Coal Palace the President and Secretary Tracy
were met by Gov. Horace Boies and his staff, headed by
Adjt.-Gen Greene; also Senator Wm. B. Allison, Senator
James F. Wilson, ex-Senator Harlan, Hon. John F.
Lacey, and the following Committee of Reception, representing
the city of Ottumwa: T. J. Devin, W. T. Harper, J.
E. Hawkins, W. B. Smith, Henry Phillips, Sam'l A. Flager,
J. C. Manchester, A. W. Johnson, W. T. Fenton, J. G.
Meek, Calvin Manning, Geo. Withall, J. W. Garner, J. J.
Smith, W. W. Epps, H. B. Hendershott, J. H. Merrill, W.
B. Bonnifield, A. H. Hamilton, C. F. Blake, John C.
Fisher, Hon. John N. Irwin, J. T. Hackworth, W. C.
Wyman, John C. Jordan, A. G. Harrow, Allen Johnston,
T. D. Foster, J. W. Edgerly, A. W. Lee, William Daggett,
G. H. Sheffer, W. D. Elliott, Charles Bachman, H. A.
Zangs, R. H. Moore, Capt. S. B. Evans, Capt. S. H. Harper,
H. W. Merrill, J. R. Burgess, J. B. Mowrey, A. C. Leighton,
W. S. Cripps, R. L. Tilton, Dr. L. J. Baker, D. A.
Emery, Samuel Mahon, W. S. Coen, O. C. Graves, Thomas
Swords, and John F. Henry. Other cities in Iowa were
represented on the Reception Committee by the following
prominent citizens: Hon. John Craig, of Keokuk; Judge
Traverse and Senator Taylor, of Bloomfield; Gen. W. W.
Wright and Gen. F. M. Drake, Centerville; Gen. B. M. McFall,
Oskaloosa; T. B. Perry and J. H. Drake, Albia; Geo.
D. Woodin and Hon. F. E. White, Sigourney; Hon. Chas.
D. Leggett and Chas. D. Fullen, Fairfield; Hon. Edwin
Manning and Capt. W. A. Duckworth, Keosauqua; F. R.[255]Crocker and E. A. Temple, Chariton; O. P. Wright, Knoxville;
E. B. Woodruff, Marion Co.; Col. Al. Swalm, Oskaloosa;
Hon. W. P. Smith, Hon. Josiah Given, Hon. Fred
Lehman, G. W. Wright, Des Moines; Hon. John H. Gear,
Hon. John J. Seely, Burlington; Hon. F. C. Hormel, Capt.
M. P. Mills, Cedar Rapids; Hon. Geo. H. Spahr, Hon. W.
I. Babb, Mt. Pleasant; Hon. J. B. Grinnell, of Grinnell; Dr.
Engle, Newton; Frank Letts and J. S. McFarland, Marshalltown;
Hon. J. B. Harsh and M. A. Robb, Creston;
ex-Governor Kirkwood and Ezekiel Clark, Iowa City.
The President and Governor Boies reviewed the parade
from a stand in the park. The column was led by the
veterans of the famous Third Iowa Cavalry. Three thousand
school children participated in the demonstration,
which was witnessed by fully 40,000 spectators. The public
reception took place in the afternoon at the Coal Palace;
the great building was overflowing. Hon. P. G. Ballingall,
President of the Coal Palace Exposition, introduced
Governor Boies, who welcomed the President in behalf of
the people of Iowa.
Governor Boies and Fellow-citizens—I accept in the same cordial
and friendly spirit in which they have been offered these words of
welcome spoken on behalf of the good people of the great State of
Iowa. It gives me pleasure in this hasty journey to pause for a
little time in the city of Ottumwa. I have had especial pleasure
in looking upon this structure and the exhibits which it contains.
It is itself a proof of the enterprise, skill, and artistic taste of the
people of this city of which they may justly be very proud. I look
about it and see that its adornment has been wrought with materials
that are familiar and common, and that these have assumed,
under the deft fingers and artistic thoughts of your people,
shapes of beauty that are marvellously attractive. If I should
attempt to interpret the lesson of this structure, I should say it
was an illustration of how much that is artistic and graceful is
to be found in the common things of life; and if I should make
an application of the lesson, it would be to suggest that we might
profitably carry into all our homes and into all neighborly intercourse
the same transforming spirit. The common things of this[256]life, touched by a loving spirit, may be made to glow and glisten.
The common intercourse of life, touched by friendliness and love,
may be made to fill every home and neighborhood with a brightness
that jewels cannot shed. And it is pleasant to think that in
our American home-life we have reached this ideal in a degree
unexcelled elsewhere.
I believe that in the American home, whether in the city or on
the farm, the American father and the American mother, in their
relations to the children, are kinder, more helpful, and benignant
than any others. [Cries of "Good! Good!" and cheers.] In these
homes is the strength of our institutions. Let these be corrupted
and the Government itself has lost the stone of strength upon which
it securely rests.
(Here, by some accident of arrangement, the water of
an artificial waterfall immediately behind the President
was turned on, and the rush and roar of the water drowned
his voice almost completely.)
I have contended with a brass band while attempting to address
a popular audience, but I have never before been asked to speak in
the rush and roar of Niagara. [Laughter and cheers.] I think if
I were to leave it to this audience whether they would rather see
that beautiful display and hear the rippling of these waters [pointing]
than to hear me, they would vote for the waterfall. [Cries
of "No, no!" and "Shut off the water!"]
(At this point the management succeeded in finally turning
off the water so that the deafening noise ceased.)
I had supposed that there were limitations upon the freedom of
this meeting this afternoon, both as to the Governor and myself,
and that no political suggestion of any sort was to be introduced
into this friendly concourse of American citizens; and I think both
of us have good cause for grievances against the prohibitionists for
interrupting us with this argument for cold water. [Great laughter
and applause.]
It is quite difficult, called upon as I am every day, and sometimes
three or four times a day, to make short addresses with the limitations
that are upon me as to the subjects upon which I may speak,
to know what to say when I meet my fellow-citizens. I was glad
to hear the Governor say that Iowa is prosperous. We have here a
witness that it is so. It offers also, I think, a solution of the origin
of that prosperity, and suggests how it may be increased and[257]developed. We have in this structure a display of all the products
of the farm, and side by side with it a display of the mechanic
arts. I think in this combination, in this diversity of interest
and pursuit, in this mutual and helpful relation between the toilers
of the soil and the workers in our shops, each contributing to the
commonwealth and each giving to the other that which he needs,
we have that which has brought about the prosperity you now
enjoy, and which is to increase under the labors of your children
to a degree that we have not realized. The progress in the mechanical
arts that men not older than I have witnessed, the application
of new agencies to the use of men within the years of my
own notice and recollection, read like a fairy tale. Let us not
think that we have reached the limits of this development. There
are yet uses of the agencies already known to be developed and
applied. There are yet agencies perhaps in the great storehouse of
nature that have not been harnessed for the use of man. The telegraph,
the telephone, and the phonograph have all come within
the memory of many who stand about me to-day. The application
of steam to ocean travel is within the memory of many here. The
development of our railroad system has all come within your
memory and mine. The railroad was but a feeble agency in commerce
when my early recollection begins; and now this great State
is covered with railroads like a network. Every farm is within
easy reach of a shipping station, and every man can speak to his
neighbor any day of the week, though that neighbor live on the
opposite side of the globe. Out of all this what is yet to come?
Who can tell? You are favored here in having not only a surface
soil that yields richly to the labor of the farmer, but in also having
hidden beneath that surface rich mines of coal which are to be
converted into power to propel the mills that will supply the wants
of your people.
Now, my friends, thanking you for the kindness with which you
have listened to me, expressing again my appreciation of the taste
and beauty of this great structure in which we stand, and wishing
for Iowa and all its citizens the largest increase of prosperity in
material wealth, the most secure social order in all their communities,
and the crowning blessing of home happiness, I bid you
good-by. [Prolonged cheering.]
Thefirst reception in the State of Missouri took place at
St. Joseph at 6:30 the morning of October 10. Many thousands
greeted the President at the Union Depot. Conspicuous
in the assemblage were the veterans of Custer Post,
G. A. R., who escorted the party to the neighboring hotel.
The Committee of Reception consisted of Col. A. C. Dawes,
Chairman; Mayor Wm. Shepard, Hon. John L. Bittinger,
Capt Chas. F. Ernst, Capt. F. M. Posegate, Col. N. P. Ogden,
August Nunning, Wm. M. Wyeth, Major T. J. Chew,
Hon. Geo. J. Englehart, Hon. O. M. Spencer, Dr. J. D.
Smith, James McCord, ex-Gov. Silas Woodson, John M.
Frazier, Frank M. Atkinson, Rev. H. L. Foote, and Major
Joseph Hansen.
Colonel Dawes made a brief welcoming address and
presented the President, who spoke as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—If you are glad to see me at this hour in the
morning, if you are so kind and demonstrative before breakfast,
how great would have been your welcome if I had come a little
later in the day? [Applause.]
I beg to thank you, who at an inconvenient and early hour,
have turned out to speak these words of welcome to us as we pass
through your beautiful city. Many years ago I read of St. Joseph.
I know something of its history, when, instead of being a large
city, it was a place for outfitting those slow and toilsome trains
that bore the early pioneers toward California and the far West.
Those days are not to be forgotten. Those means of communication
were slow, but they bore men and women, full of courage and
patriotism, to do for us on the Pacific and in the great West the
work of peaceful conquest that has added greatly to the glory and
prosperity of our country. And yet we congratulate ourselves that
the swifter means of communication have taken the place of the
old; we congratulate ourselves that these conveniences, both of
business and social life, have come to crown our day. And yet
in the midst of them, enjoying the luxuries which modern civilization
brings to our doors, let us not lose from our households
those plain and sturdy virtues which are essential to true
American citizenship; let us remember always that above all[259]surroundings, above all that is external, there is to be prized
those solid and essential virtues that make home happy and that
make our country great, and that enable us in every time of trial
and necessity to call out from among the people some who are
fit to lead our armies or to meet every emergency in the history
of the State. We are here as American citizens, not as partisans;
we are here as comrades of the late war, or, if there are here those
who under the other banner fought for what seemed to them to be
right, we are here to say one and all that God knew what was best
for this country when he cast the issue in favor of the Union and
the Constitution. [Applause and cheers.]
Now, again united under its ample guarantee of personal liberty
and public security, united again under one flag, we have started
forward, if we are true to our obligations, upon a career of prosperity
that would not otherwise have been possible. Let us therefore,
in all kindliness and faithfulness, in devotion to the right,
as God shall give us light to see it, go forward in the discharge of
our duties, setting above everything else the flag and the Constitution
on which all our rights and securities are based. Now, my
comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic and fellow-citizens
of Missouri, again I thank you and bid you good-by. [Cheers.]
EnteringKansas the President was the recipient of a
unique welcome at Atchison, where 1,000 school children
and several thousand citizens greeted him. Little Edna
Elizabeth Downs was the orator on behalf of the children,
and delivered a beautiful address, at the conclusion of
which the children showered the President with flowers.
The Mayor of Atchison, Hon. B. P. Waggener, and the
following prominent citizens welcomed the Chief Executive:
Hon. John J. Ingalls, Hon. Edward K. Blair, Hon.
Clem Rohr, Hon. S. C. King, Hon. S. H. Kelsey, Hon.
John C. Tomlinson, Hon. A. J. Harwi, Hon. Henry Elleston,
Hon. S. R. Stevenson, Hon. C. W. Benning, Judge
Rob't M. Eaton, ex-Gov. Geo. W. Glick, Hon. H. C. Solomon,
Judge A. G. Otis, Judge David Martin, L. C.
Challiss, E. W. Howe, David Auld, B. T. Davis, Chas.[260]E. Faulkner, Major W. H. Haskell, Major S. R. Washer,
Capt. J. K. Fisher, Capt. David Baker, Capt. John Seaton,
Stanton Park, T. B. Gerow, and H. Claypark. Chief-Justice
Albert H. Horton made the welcoming address
and introduced President Harrison, who said:
My Fellow-citizens—I stand to-day for the first time upon the
soil of Kansas. I am glad to have been permitted to enter it by
the vestibule of this attractive city, the home of one of your
most brilliant statesmen. I cannot refrain from saying, God be
thanked that freedom won its early battle in Kansas. [Applause.]
All this would have been otherwise impossible. You have a soil
christened with the blood of men who died for liberty, and you
have well maintained the lessons they taught, living and dying.
It was appropriate that the survivors of the late war, men who
came home crowned with the consummating victory of liberty,
should make the State of Kansas pre-eminently the soldier State of
the Union. Now, after telling you that I am very grateful for
your friendly greeting this morning, you will, I am sure, excuse
me, in this tumult, from attempting further speech. May every
good attend you in your homes; may the career of this great State
be one of unceasing prosperity in things material, and may your
citizenship never forget that the spiritual things that take hold of
liberty and human rights are higher and better than all material
things. [Prolonged cheering.] Allow me now to present to you
the only member of my Cabinet who accompanied me, General
Tracy, of New York, the Secretary of the Navy.
ThePresident's reception at Topeka on Friday, October
10, was a remarkable ovation; over 50,000 people from
every county in the State greeted him. The famous
Seventh U. S. Cavalry, Gen. J. W. Forsythe commanding,
acted as the guard of honor. The President was welcomed
by Gov. Lyman U. Humphrey, Senator John J. Ingalls,
Chief-Justice Albert H. Horton, Mayor Robert L. Cofran,
and the following distinguished committee: Ex-Gov.
Thomas A. Osborn, ex-Gov. Geo. T. Anthony, Capt. Geo.
R. Peck, Col. James Burgess, Hon. S. B. Bradford, Judge[261]N. C. McFarland, Judge John Martin, A. J. Arnold, John
Guthrie, Wm. P. Douthitt, John Mileham, William Sims,
Cyrus K. Holliday, Perry G. Noel, S. T. Howe, Bernard
Kelly, J. Lee Knight, N. D. McGinley, Wm. H. Rossington,
Rev. Dr. F. S. McCabe, Geo. W. Reed, Elihu Holcomb,
Lark Odin, L. J. Webb, Milo B. Ward, J. K. Hudson, F.
P. McLennan, H. O. Garvey, Frank Root, John M. Bloss,
John F. Gwinn, A. M. Fuller, J. W. F. Hughes, John R.
Peckham, James L. King, Henry Bennett, Geo. H. Evans,
M. C. Holman, John C. Gordon, H. P. Throop, Joseph R.
Hankland, T. W. Durham, Judge C. G. Foster, A. K.
Rodgers, A. B. Jetmore, and Thomas F. Oenes.
The parade was an imposing affair. Thirty thousand
veterans were in line. The Indiana contingent numbered
over 1,000, and as they passed the reviewing carriage, led
by Major George Noble, cheer after cheer was given in
honor of the distinguished Hoosier. Nearly 6,000 school
children participated in the parade. In the afternoon the
President visited the reunion grounds with Commander
Ira F. Collins and other officers of the Kansas Department,
G. A. R. Governor Humphrey delivered the welcoming
address.
My Fellow-citizens—I am strongly tempted to omit even an attempt
to speak to you to-day; I think it would be better that I
should go home and write you an open letter. [Great laughter
and cheering.] I have been most profoundly impressed with the
incidents which have attended this tremendous and, I am told,
unprecedented gathering of the soldiers and citizens of the great
State of Kansas. No one can interpret in speech the lessons of this
occasion. No power of description is adequate to convey to those
who have not looked upon it or into the spirit and power of this
meeting. This assembly is altogether too large to be greeted individually—one
cannot get his arms around it. [Laughter and
cheers.] And yet so kindly have you received me that I would be
glad if to each of you I could convey the sense of gratitude and
appreciation which is in my heart. There is nothing for any of
us to do but to open wide our hearts and let these elevating sug[262]gestions
take possession of them. I am sure there has been nothing
here to-day that does not point in the direction of a higher individual,
social, State and national life. Who can look upon this
vast array of soldiers who fought to a victorious consummation
the war for the Union without bowing his head and his heart in
grateful reverence? [Great applause.] Who can look upon these
sons of veterans, springing from a patriotic ancestry, full of the
spirit of '61, and coming into the vigor and strength of manhood
to take up the burdens that we must soon lay down, and who,
turning from these to the sweet-faced children whose hands are
filled with flowers and flags, can fail to feel those institutions of
liberty are secure for two generations at least? [Great cheering.]
I never knew until to-day the extent of the injury which the State
of Kansas had inflicted upon the State of Indiana [laughter and
cheers]—never until I had looked upon that long line of Indiana
soldiers that you plucked from us when the war was over by the
superior inducement which your fields and cities offered to their
ambitious toil. Indiana grieves for their loss, but rejoices in the
homes and prosperity they have found here. [Cheers.] They are
our proud contribution to the great development which this State
has made. They are our proud contribution to that great national
reputation which your State has established as the friend as well
as one of the bulwarks of liberty and law. [Cheers.] It was not
unnatural that they, coming back from scenes where comrades had
shed their blood for liberty, should choose to find homes in a State
that had the baptism of martyrs' blood upon its infant brow.
[Prolonged cheering.] The future is safe if we are but true to
ourselves, true to these children whose instruction is committed to
us. There is no other foe that can at all obstruct or hinder our
onward progress except treason in our own midst—treachery to the
great fundamental principle of our Government, which is obedience
to the law. The law, the will of the majority expressed in orderly,
constitutional methods, is the only king to which we bow. But
to him all must bow. Let it be understood in all your communities
that no selfish interest of the individual, no class interests,
however entrenched, shall be permitted to assert their convenience
against the law. This is good American doctrine, and if it can be
made to prevail in all the States of the Union until every man,
secure under the law in his own right, is compelled by the law to
yield to every other man his rights, nothing can shake our repose.
[Cheers.]
Now, fellow-citizens, you will excuse me from the attempt at
further speech. I beg you again to believe that I am grateful, so[263]far as your presence here has any personal reference to myself—grateful
as a public officer for this evidence of your love and affection
for the Constitution and the country which we all love.
[Great applause.]
There is some grumbling in Kansas, and I think it is because
your advantages are too great. [Laughter.] A single year of disappointment
in agricultural returns should not make you despair
of the future or tempt you to unsafe expedients. Life is made up
of averages, and I think yours will show a good average. Let us
look forward with hope, with courage, fidelity, thrift, patience,
good neighborly hearts, and a patriotic love for the flag. Kansas
and her people have an assured and happy future. [Prolonged
cheers.]
AtNortonville the citizens, and especially the school
children, turned outen masseand gave the President the
heartiest of welcomes. Among the prominent residents
who participated in the greeting were Hon. A. J. Perry, S.
P. Griffin, Thomas Eckles, C. C. McCarthy, Dr. D. T.
Brown, L. P. King, D. A. Ellsworth, O. U. Babcock, Dr.
R. D. Webb, J. G. Roberts, W. T. Eckles, Harry Ellison,
Rev. T. Hood, and M. Crowberger. On behalf of the school
children a little girl climbed the steps and presented the
Chief Magistrate with an armful of beautiful bouquets, for
which she received a hearty kiss.
Governor Humphrey introduced the President, who
spoke as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—This brief stop forbids that I should say anything
more than thank you and to extend to you all my most friendly
greeting. The sky is overcast, but in this assemblage of your
school children, with flags and flowers, and in this gathering of
the sturdy men who have made Kansas great among States, there
are suggestions that spread a sky of beauty and hope above our
country and its destiny. It gives me great pleasure to make this
first visit to Kansas. It gives me great pleasure to see both at
Atchison and here the interest which the presence of these children
shows you take in public education. There are many here who[264]in their early days experienced the hardships and privations of
pioneer life. The avenues of learning were shut against them, but
it is much to their credit that what they lacked in early life, the
impediments which have burdened their careers, they have bravely
resolved shall not burden their children. I thank you again for
this pleasant reception, and I bid you good-by, as we proceed on
our journey.
AtValley Falls, Kan., another large crowd was assembled.
The President was welcomed by Mayor A. D. Kendall,
Dr. A. M. Cowan, R. H. Crosby, M. M. Maxwell, Dr.
Frank Swallow, Mrs. J. H. Murry, Miss L. M. Ring, and
other prominent residents. Mrs. Dr. Cowan, on behalf of
the ladies, presented General Harrison with a basket of
flowers.
In response to the enthusiastic greetings the President
said:
My Friends—I thank you sincerely for this cordial reception. I
will not attempt any speech further than to say that this greeting
puts me, if possible, under still stronger obligations in every official
duty that devolves upon me to consult the interests of the people
and do that which seems to be most promotive of public good.
[Cheers.]
Thehistoric city of Lawrence was reached at 4:40
o'clock, where the cheers of an immense multitude, including
a battalion from Haskell Institute, welcomed the President.
The Reception Committee consisted of Mayor A.
Henley, George Innis, W. H. Whitney, Gov. Chas. Robinson,
Gen. J. N. Roberts, and E. F. Goodrich. The veterans
of Washington Post, G. A. R., Gen. H. S. Hall, Commander,
were present in a body.
Mayor Henley, in the name of the city, welcomed the
President, who, responding, said:
My Friends—I am sure you are kind, and the greatest kindness
you can do me is not to ask me to attempt to speak again so recently
after attempting at Topeka to talk to all the rest of the people
in Kansas [laughter] who are not here. I supposed until the
train pulled into this city that the entire citizenship of the State
was in the immense crowd congregated at Topeka to-day. My
voice was so strained in attempting to speak there that I will only
say to you that it gives me great pleasure to see you and to speak
to you, even for a moment, at this hospitable town. All the inspiration
connected with the story of the early history of Kansas
clusters around the city of Lawrence. I am sure you will find in that
story inspiration and suggestion that will keep the cause of liberty
ever near to your hearts. [Great applause.]
Thepresidential party reached Kansas City at 5:30P.M.Friday, where a grand reception was tendered the
Chief Executive. The Committee of Reception, representing
the municipality and business interests, comprised the
following prominent citizens, who escorted the President
from Topeka: Mayor Benjamin Holmes, Witten McDonald,
J. C. James, Joseph Speyer, Judge C. L. Dobson,
Col. M. J. Payne, W. S. Woods, Hon. E. H. Allen, F. L.
Kaufman, M. E. Lawrence, Joseph Cahn, Col. T. B. Bullene,
Col. E. H. Phelps, Col. J. F. Richards, George R.
Barse, Major William Warner, William Taylor, Col. Louis
Hammerslough, E. C. Sattley, J. H. Fink, Col. W. A. Wilson,
Marshal Tracy, F. B. Nofsinger, Collector Devol, Surveyor
Guffin, Dr. F. W. Schulte, W. T. Urie, G. S. Hampton,
J. H. Smith, M. D. Henderson, H. J. Rosecrans, R. M.
Easley, H. C. Fike, B. S. Flersheim, Wm. Barton, H. J.
Long, E. M. Clendening, T. James, James M. Coburn, L.
E. Irwin, C. L. Valandingham, G. W. Hollinger, E. E.
Richardson, E. M. Wilcox, J. M. Cooper, W. H. Bundage,
M. H. Dickerson, C. A. Brockett, S. A. Pierce, J. H. Neff,
S. R. Hudson, A. H. Moffitt, S. B. Stokely, P. L. Whipple,[266]J. W. Merrill, D. G. Saunders, F. W. Hatch, G. Bernheimer,
B. C. Burgess, S. T. Smith, and J. L. Walker.
An enormous crowd greeted the President as he was
driven to the Coates House, where the distinguished party
were entertained at dinner by Mayor Holmes, ex-Governor
Crittenden, Mayor W. A. Coy, of Kansas City, Kan.; Gov.
A. J. Smith, of the Soldiers' Home at Leavenworth; Hon.
John Scott Harrison—the President's brother—and other
leading citizens.
In response to a toast to the President's health, General
Harrison said:
Gentlemen—I am sorry to cause even this temporary interruption
by leaving the banquet, but I am sure you will all appreciate the
desire I have to spend a few minutes under my brother's roof in
your city, and will therefore excuse me. Let me say that I very
much appreciate the friendly and hospitable spirit of the business
men of Kansas City, to whom I am indebted for this banquet and
reception. It has never been my pleasure before to visit your city,
but it has been well advertised, and I have heard of it frequently.
[Laughter and applause.] So far as I could tell by the dim light
of the evening in riding through the city, it realizes fully my
expectations in growth and prosperity. [Applause.] Let me say,
in conclusion, that I hope all your dreams for Kansas City may be
realized. [Great applause.]
After passing the evening at his brother's residence, at
8P.M.the President was escorted by 300 members of the
Third Regiment and a cavalry guard, commanded by Col.
Milton Moore, to the Chamber of Commerce, where an
informal reception was held.
Major William Warner introduced the President, who
said:
My Fellow citizens—I will not attempt to say more than that I
am very grateful to you for your kindness, for this cordial, genuine
Kansas City welcome. [Cheers.] The arrangements which have
been made, and which are intended to give me an opportunity to
meet some of you personally, and the early hour at which we are
to take the train for St. Louis, make it inappropriate that I should
attempt to speak at any length. I thank you again for your kind[267]ness,
and will now submit myself to such arrangements as the
committee have made to spend the little time I have to spend with
you. [Cheers.]
ThePresident arrived in St. Louis at 9:30 in the morning
and received a royal welcome. As he drove through
the city amid the roar of cannon, it is estimated that fully
200,000 people greeted him, and his journey partook of a
triumph. The committee of escort that met the President
at Kansas City consisted of ex-Gov. E. O. Stanard, Col. S.
W. Fordyce, Hon. R. C. Kerens, and Marcus Bernheimer.
The guard of honor was a detail from the Grand Army,
commanded by Major Leo Rassieur.
The President was met on arrival by the following distinguished
Committee of Reception: His Honor, Mayor
Noonan, D. M. Houser, Geo. D. Reynolds, R. M. Scruggs,
Nelson Cole, Col. James G. Butler, Col. J. O. Churchill,
Daniel Catlin, Wm. M. Senter, John Orrick, John S.
Moffett, S. Newman, D. P. Rowland, John J. Daly, A. B.
Ewing, Miles Sells, John Dillon, Professor Waterhouse,
Frank Buchanan, John B. Harlow, Marquand Foster,
Philip Brockman, Wm. Grassmuck, Chas. Scudder, John
J. O'Brien, T. J. Cummings, John H. Terry, J. S. Finkenbauer,
C. J. Hanabrinck, L. Bohle, O. M. Dean, John M.
Sellers, James Green, Dr. Thomas O'Reilly, Samuel Kennard,
O. M. Haye, John A. Scudder, H. L. Morrill, S. H.
H. Clark, John Scullen, C. C. Maffitt, Joseph Franklin,
Hon. F. G. Niedringhaus, Hon. Nathan Frank, W. M.
Kinsey, E. S. Rowse, Geo. D. Barnard, J. L. Boland, D.
H. King, C. P. Walbridge, B. F. Harnett, Geo. Taylor, R.
P. Tansey, A. S. White, F. A. Wann, M. M. Bodenheimer,
W. A. Hargadine, George A. Baker, John N. Booth, Geo.
W. Parker, J. D. Thompson, George A. Medill, E. C. Simmons,
Edwin C. Kehr, G. A. Finkelnburg, Marcus Bernheimer,
L. Beavis, Charles F. Joy, Henry Hitchcock,[268]Wm. H. Thompson, W. F. Niedringhaus, Charles Espenschied,
A. B. Goodbaugh, Jonathan Rice, Jacob Meyer,
Goodman King, D. C. Nugent, John Davis, J. D. Bascom,
R. W. Shapleigh, Edgar D. Tilton, John C. Wilkinson, D.
D. Walker, Frederick Vaughn, E. F. Williams, J. H.
Wear, C. D. Comfort, C. C. Rainwater, F. W. Humphrey,
Michael McGinnis, John Wahl, W. L. Hughes, and
Thomas H. West.
After reviewing the parade from the balcony of the
Southern Hotel the President and Secretary Tracy visited
the Merchants' Exchange and were tendered a reception
by the business men of the city. Mr. Marcus Bernheimer,
President of the Exchange, occupied the presiding chair
and introduced Gov. D. R. Francis, who, in an eloquent
address, welcomed the President in the name of the people
of Missouri. The Governor was followed by Hon. Edward
A. Noonan, Mayor of St. Louis, who extended a "sincere
and hearty greeting," on behalf of the residents of the
city.
Hon. Charles Parsons then introduced the President,
who addressed the assemblage as follows:
Governor Francis, Mr. Mayor, and Fellow-citizens—It is very
grateful and very healthful to be so cordially received by you this
morning. The office which I have been called upon to administer
is very great in dignity, but it is very full of care and heavy
responsibility. The man who with conscientious regard and a
proper appreciation of the great trust seeks to administer it for the
public good will find himself daily beset with perplexities and
doubts, and daily besieged by those who differ with him as to the
public administration. But it is a great comfort to know that we
have an intelligent, thoughtful, and, at the same time, a very kind
people, who judge benevolently and kindly the acts of those public
servants of whose good disposition to do right they are not left in
doubt. And it is very pleasant to know—and I do not need these
eloquent words of assurance to have already impressed upon me—the
great lesson that there are more things in which we agree and
have common interests than in which we differ. But our differences
of opinion as to public administration are all brought to[269]gether
in a genuine patriotism and love of country. [Applause].
It gives me pleasure to witness since my last visit to St. Louis
evidence of that steady and uninterrupted growth which this great
commercial centre has made since its birth as an Indian trading-post
on the Mississippi. No year has been without its added evidences
of progress, development, accumulation of wealth, and
increase in population. You have now passed any period of doubt
or uncertainty, and the career of St. Louis is assured. You have
grown like the oak, annually adding a ring to the prosperity and
wealth and commercial importance of your great city. You have
struck the roots of your influence broad and deep into the nourishing
earth of this great fertile land in which you have lived; and
the branches—the high branches of your enterprise—are reaching
toward the sunlight that shines upon them. You are situated upon
the Mississippi River, giving you water communication with the
sea, a communication which this Government has undertaken to
improve and secure, and which I believe will be made secure by
appropriate legislation. [Applause.] Nor do I know any reason
why these great lines of railway stretching from St. Louis to
the Southwest may not yet touch great ports of commerce, deep
harbors, until they shall become trunk lines. We have come to
regard only these lines of railway communication to eastern seaboards
as trunk lines. I do not know why. Indeed, I believe that
in the future, when we shall have seized again, as we will seize if
we are true to ourselves, our own fair part of commerce upon the
sea, and when we shall have again our appropriate share of South
American trade [cheers], that these railroads from St. Louis,
touching deep harbors on the gulf, and communicating there with
lines of steamships, shall touch the ports of South America and
bring their tribute to you. You shall in all these things find
a special interest, but an interest that will be shared, as all great
interests are, by the Nation and people, of which you are a loyal
and enterprising part. And now, my friends, again let me thank
you, and all those who have spoken in your behalf, for these
friendly words. These great industries of commerce and manufactures
here are entwined in friendly helpfulness. As they are
diversified your prosperity is increased; but under them all, as the
only secure rock upon which they can rest, is social order and
obedience to the law. Let it never be forgotten anywhere that
commerce builds only upon social order. Be watchful and careful
of every instrumentality or suggestion which puts itself against
the law. Where the law is wrong make it right. [Cries of
"Good!" and cheering.] Let that be the one rule of conduct in[270]the public relations of every American citizen. And now, my
friends, again let me say thank you and good-by.
At the conclusion of the reception on 'Change the President,
escorted by the Committee of Reception, visited the
Fair Grounds and attended a banquet in his honor at the
Jockey Club House. In the evening the distinguished
guests visited the Exposition, where a tremendous crowd
gathered. As the President entered Music Hall, Gilmore's
famous band struck up "Hail to the Chief." The great
audience stood and called repeatedly for a speech. The
President arose in his box and bowed several times; but
there was no denying their demands, and Governor Francis
finally introduced his excellency, who said:
Ladies and Gentlemen—I have sometimes thought that the life
of the President of the United States is like that of the policeman
in the opera—not a happy one. So many cares strew his path, so
many people's welfare is to be considered, that wiser heads than
mine may well be puzzled. The attention of this mighty audience
to-night has been distracted from the concert by my entrance, not
withstanding the fact that it has a leader more a master of his art
than any other on the continent. I did not, nor do I desire to
make a speech to-night. But as I have always declared myself in
favor of the rule of the majority, I feel compelled to do so.
From early morn till late this evening the day has been one of
unalloyed pleasure to me. Every possible courtesy has been shown
our party, and we have gathered, I assure you, a most high opinion
of your people and your city. This building is in every way a
credit to St. Louis, the metropolis of the Southwest, and its exhibits
do credit to the merchants and manufacturers represented. I am
glad to see that the higher arts go hand-in-hand with mechanics.
Art, music, poetry, and song should not be separated from the
homes of the poor, and such an institution as this cannot fail to
instil all that is good into the hearts of every one. Before I close
let me tell you all how grateful and how complimented I feel at
my hearty reception in your midst. I shall always recall this day
with happy remembrance. Now, won't you crown the great courtesies
of the day by allowing me to end my speech? [Applause.]
President Harrisonpassed the Sabbath quietly at his
Indianapolis residence, and early Monday morning, accompanied
by Secretary Tracy and Marshal Ransdell,
started for Washington.
The first stop was at Pendleton, where the President
shook hands with quite a crowd. Anderson, the county
seat of Madison County, was reached at 7:10, and a large
concourse of people greeted the travellers. The President
was received by Hon. Winfield T. Durbin, Chas. T. Doxey,
W. A. Kittinger, John F. McClure, Caleb Brown, Jacob
Koehler, Francis Watkins, A. A. Small, and other leading
citizens. Mayor Terhune, in a patriotic address, presented
the Chief Executive.
After acknowledging the cordial greeting, the President
spoke of the rapid industrial development of that section
consequent upon the discovery and development of natural
gas, and predicted a fine future for the county. Concluding,
he said:
I am here to-day, returning to my duties at Washington from a
trip taken to meet some of my old comrades during the war.
There are some here this morning. I bid them God-speed; I give
them a comrade's greeting; and to you, my old-time friends, not
in politics, but in that pride and association which makes us all
Indianians—we are all proud of our State and proud of our communities—I
desire to say that while I have friends elsewhere, these
were my earliest friends—friends of my boyhood almost, for I was
scarcely more than a boy when I became a citizen of this State,
and I always turn to it with affectionate interest. [Cheers.]
AtMuncie the assemblage was very large, numbering
over 10,000, and the President received the most vociferous
greeting of the day. Here, as at other points in the State,
hundreds of General Harrison's old friends crowded forth
to welcome him and bid him God-speed. Prominent[272]among these were: Hon. Frank Ellis, Mayor of the city;
Hon. M. C. Smith, Hon. John C. Eiler, Hon. Fred W.
Heath, Hon. W. W. Orr, Hon. O. N. Cranor, Hon. Geo. W.
Cromer, Judge O. J. Lotz, Dr. G. W. H. Kemper, Dr.
Thos. J. Bowles, Dr. A. B. Bradbury, A. L. Kerwood, Geo.
L. Lenon, F. E. Putnam, Thos. H. Kirby, Charles H. Anthony,
D. H. H. Shewmaker, Theodore F. Rose, N. N.
Spence, Chas. M. Kimbrough, Webster S. Richey, Thos.
L. Zook, John T. Watterhouse, J. W. Ream, C. E. Jones,
and R. I. Patterson. Mayor Ellis delivered a brief welcoming
address and introduced the President, who spoke
as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—I have known this beautiful city of yours
and many of the people of this prosperous county for more than
thirty years. I have known in a general way the development of
your interests by almost yearly visits to the city of Muncie, but it
seems to me that in these two years I have been out of the State
you have made more progress than in any ten years when I was
in the State. [Cheers.] I think it was in the year 1886, when I
spent a night in Muncie, that my attention was drawn by some of
your citizens, as darkness settled down, to a remarkable and what
was then thought to be chiefly a curious red glow in your horizon.
It was, if I recollect aright, about the earliest development of natural
gas in Indiana, and the extent of this great field was wholly
unknown. How rapidly events have crowded each other since!
You have delved into the earth and have found the supply of this
most adaptable and extraordinary fuel inexhaustible; and what has
it done for you? No longer are you transporting coal from the
distant mines to feed your furnaces. No longer are you sending
the choppers into the woods to cut your trees and haul them in,
that they may bring you winter heat and fuel. The factories have
been coming to you. This convenient heat and serviceable fuel is
found in the humblest home in Muncie. How it has added to
your comfort only those who have used it know. How much it
has added to your prosperity and development of manufactures here
you have only begun to know. [Cheers.]
The sunlight will not more surely shed its beams on us this
morning than this great tide of prosperity which has set in through
this gas belt in Indiana shall go on increasing until all these cities
and towns within its radius are full of busy men and humming[273]machinery. What does all this mean? It means employment for
men. It means happy and comfortable homes for an increasing
population. It means an increased home market for the products
of your farm. It means that the farmer will have a choice of
crops, and will have consumers for perishable products of his farm
at his very door. It means, if you preserve the order of your community,
if this good county of Delaware continues to maintain its
reputation as a law-abiding, liberty-loving, free-school-loving population
[cheers], that you shall have a prosperity—an increase of
riches and of human comfort that we have scarcely conceived.
And now, my friends, all over this, and above all this, and better
than it all, let us keep in mind those higher things that make our
country great. I do not forget that your good county sent to the
war of the Union, in the gallant regiments that went from this
State, a multitude of brave men to stand by the flag. [Cheers.]
Some of them are with you to-day. [Applause.] Now let that
love of the flag be still uppermost in your hearts. Nothing has
pleased me more as I passed through some of our Western States
than to see that the school children everywhere had the starry flag
in their hands. [Cheers.] Let it be so here and everywhere. Let
them learn to love it, to know its beauty, in order that when the
time of peril comes they may be ready to defend it. [Applause.]
Now to these friends, I am most grateful for your appreciative
kindness, and if I shall be able, in the discharge of high and difficult
duties, to maintain the respect and confidence of my fellow-citizens
of Indiana, other things will take care of themselves.
Winchester'sgreeting was of the most cordial character;
a large share of the population of Randolph County
seemed to have turned out to do the President honor.
Among the prominent citizens participating were: Leander
J. Monks, Albert O. Marsh, Martin B. Miller, C. W.
Moore, Dennis Kelley, W. R. Way, W. E. Miller, T. F.
Moorman, Albert Canfield, John R. Engle, A. C. Beeson,
E. L. Watson, Thos. S. Gordon, H. P. Kizer, J. E. Watson,
John T. Chenoweth, W. H. Reinheimer, B. Hawthorne,
and B. W. Simmons.
Gen. Thomas M. Browne, on behalf of the citizens, de[274]livered
an eloquent address of welcome, and closed by introducing
President Harrison, who said:
My Friends—It gives me great pleasure to hear from the lips of
your honored fellow-citizen, my old-time army comrade, these
words of welcome, spoken in your behalf. I thank you and him
for his assurance that your assembling here together is without
regard to difference in belief, and as American citizens having
common interests and a common love for the flag and the Constitution.
Now, to these good people of Randolph County I render
this morning my sincere thanks for their hearty and cordial welcome.
No public servant, in whatever station, can ever be indifferent
to the good esteem of men and women and children like
these. You do not know how much these kindly faces, these
friendly Indiana greetings, help me in the discharge of duties that
are not always easy.
I bid you good-by and God-speed. I do wish for Indiana and all
her people the greatest happiness that God can give. [Prolonged
cheers.]
ThePresident found another great crowd awaiting him
at Union City, including several hundred school children,
each waving a flag. Between rows of children he was escorted
to the park near the station by a committee consisting
of Hon. Theo. Shockney, B. F. Coddington, J. S.
Reeves, and Geo. W. Patchell. Arrived at the park he
was met by James B. Ross, S. R. Bell, L. C. Huesman, J.
F. Rubey, W. S. Ensign, L. D. Lambert, J. B. Montani,
C. S. Hardy, J. C. Platt, Judge J. W. Williams, R. G.
Clark, H. H. Le Fever, H. D. Grahs, Chas. Hook, and other
prominent citizens. Senator Shockney made the welcoming
address. The President, responding, said:
Senator Shockney and Fellow-citizens—The conditions are not
such here that I can hope to make many of you hear the few words
that it is possible for me to speak to you. I have found myself in
this tour through these Western States, undertaken for the purpose
of meeting some of my comrades of the late war, who had invited[275]me to be with them at their annual gatherings, repeating the words
"Thank you" everywhere. I have felt how inadequate this word
or any other word was to express the sense of gratitude I should
feel to these friendly fellow-citizens who everywhere greeted me
with kind words and kinder faces. I feel very grateful to see you,
and to realize that if there are any fault-finders, sometimes with
reason, and sometimes without, that the great body of our people
are interested only in good government, in good administration, and
that the offices shall be filled by men who understand that they are
the servants of the people, and who serve them faithfully and well.
If it were not so a President would despair. Great as the Government
is, vast as is our civil list, it is wholly inadequate to satisfy
the reasonable demands of men, and so, from disappointment, reasonable
or unreasonable, we turn with confidence and receive with
encouragement these kindly greetings from the toilers of the country—the
men and women who only ask from the Government that
it shall protect them in their lives, their property, and their homes;
that it shall encourage education, provide for these sweet young
children, so that they shall have an easier road in life than their
fathers had, and that there shall be an absence of corrupt intent or
act in the administration of public business.
And now, standing on the line which divides these two States,
the one for which I have the regard every man should feel for his
birthplace, and the other to which I owe everything I have received
in civil life or public honor, I beg to call your attention to the fact
how little State lines have to do with American life. Some of you
pay your taxes on that side of the line, some on this, but in your
intercourse, business, and social ties you cross this line unknowingly.
Above both and greater than both—above the just pride
which Ohioans have in that noble State, and above the just pride
which we have in Indiana—there floats this banner that is the common
banner of us all. We are one in citizenship; we are one in
devotion to the Government, which makes the existence of States
possible and their destruction impossible. [Cheers.] And now,
to these children, to my Grand Army friends, and to these old citizens,
many of whom I have met under other conditions, I beg to
say God bless you every one, and good-by.
Crossingthe Ohio line a short stop was made at Sidney,
where the President shook hands and received a delegation
from Bellefontaine headed by Judge Wm. Lawrence.
At De Graff the President met with a cordial reception,
especially from the school children. He was welcomed by
ex-Mayor H. P. Runyon, Dr. W. W. Hamer, Dr. W. H.
Hinkle, W. E. Haris, G. W. Harnish, John F. Rexer, Dr.
F. M. Galer, Dr. Wm. Hance, R. O. Bigley, D. S. Spellman,
D. W. Koch, Benjamin Bunker, W. H. Valentine, J. W.
Strayer, and S. E. Loffer.
Superintendent of Schools Joseph Swisher introduced
the President, who said:
My Friends—I am very glad to see you all, and especially these
dear young children. I have been passing through a country glorious
in the autumnal tints which make a landscape that can be
seen nowhere else in the world, and yet I turn always from these
decaying glories of nature with great delight to look into the
bright faces of these happy children, where I see a greater, because
immortal, glory. I thank them for their presence here this morning.
I wish their lives may be as sunny and bright through manhood
and through womanhood, finding happiness in usefulness. I
wish I had time to shake hands with you all. [Cheers.]
Bellefontaineaccorded the President an enthusiastic
welcome. The Committee of Reception consisted of Dr.
A. L. Wright, Mayor of the city; Judge William Lawrence,
Judge West, Judge Price, J. C. Brand, D. Hennesy,
Geo. W. Emerson, Aaron Gross, A. C. Elliott, A. E.
Griffen, H. J. King, J. E. West, I. N. Zearing, and J. Q.
A. Campbell.
Mayor Wright delivered a brief welcoming address and
introduced the President, who spoke as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—I wish all of you could have seen what I
have seen in this extended but hasty visit through some of the
great States of the central West, the broader view which we get
as we journey through this country of the capabilities of its soil,
of the beauties of its landscape, of the happiness of its homes, but,
above all, of the sturdy manhood of its people, can but be useful
to every public man and every patriot. [Applause.] No one can
make such a journey as we have and look into the faces of hundreds
of thousands of his fellow-citizens and see how here in Ohio,
Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, and Missouri they are everywhere
characterized by a sturdy independence and intelligent thoughtfulness
and manhood, and doubt the future of this country of which
they are citizens. Nothing can shake its repose as long as this
great mass of people in these homes, on these farms, in these shops
and city dwelling-places are true to themselves and to their children.
Not every one can hope to reach the maximum of human
wealth or enjoyment, but nowhere else is there so general a diffusion
of human comfort and the conveniences of life as in this land
of ours. You must not, then, show unthankfulness to the framers
of our great Constitution or to God by indulging in gloomy forebodings
or in unreasonable complaint. He has not promised that
everywhere and every season the fields should give full returns.
He has promised that the food of man should not fail, and where
else is famine unknown? Other countries have now and then
appealed for philanthropic help from abroad to feed their population,
greater or less. The United States has always a surplus after
its people are fed, and for this we should be thankful. I have
been told everywhere that though crops in some respects and in
some places have been short, the general prosperity is very great.
Everywhere I have been told that no wheel is idle, and that no
hand is idle that seeks employment that honest bread may come
to his household. I believe that we are on an upward grade of
prosperity, if we will be brave and hopeful and true, that shall
lead us perhaps to a development and an increase of wealth we
have never before attained. And now, my fellow-citizens, thanking
you for this friendly morning greeting, I bid you good-by.
[Applause.] Let me have the pleasure, however, of introducing
to you my valued associate at Washington—Secretary Tracy.
[Applause.]
Thepeople of Crestline honored the President with a
large assembly, prominent among whom were: Mayor
P. W. Pool, Hon. Daniel Babst, John G. Barney, Alexander
Hall, B. F. Miller, John Whittle, John F. Castle, C. F.
Frank, Dr. W. P. Bennett, L. G. Russell, A. Howorth, G.
B. Thrailkill, E. S. Bagley, D. L. Zink, J. P. Davis, T. P.
Kerr, W. R. Boyd, E. W. Hadley, Samuel Gee, C. C. Hall,
D. S. Patterson, and Richard Youngblood.
Mayor Pool welcomed and introduced the President in a
brief address. General Harrison responded:
My Fellow-citizens—Already some seven or eight times this
morning, beginning before breakfast, I have been called upon to
talk briefly to my fellow-citizens who have gathered at the various
points where we made brief stops at their request. The story I
must tell you is the same old story I have been telling them—that
I am very grateful for your friendly expressions and presence;
very grateful for the kindliness which speaks through those who
address me, and for the kindness which appears in all your faces.
It is pleasant to know that as against all enemies of our country
we are one, that we have great pride, just pride in our birthright
as American citizens, just pride in the country of our adoption as
to those who have found a home here with us. It is the people's
land more than any other country in the world. Mr. Lincoln
felicitously expressed it to be a "government of the people, by the
people, for the people." [Applause.] They originate it; they
perpetuate it. If it does not miss its purpose it is administered
for their good. [Applause.] And so to you upon whom the burden
of citizenship now rests, you who have the care of these homes
and the responsibilities of womanhood; to these lads who will soon
be citizens, and to these girls who are coming on to womanhood,
to all I express my thanks for your friendly greeting. [Applause.]
To every one of you I wish the most abundant success; that every
home represented here may be a typical American home, in which
morality and purity and love sit as the crowning virtues and are
household gods. Our country is prosperous, though not all have
attained this year the measure of success which they had hoped
for. If there was any shortness of crops anywhere, already the
fields are green with the promise of another year. Let our hearts[279]be hopeful, let us be faithful and true, and the future of our country
and our own comfort are assured. [Cheers.]
AtMansfield, the home of Senator Sherman, a large
assemblage greeted the President, prominent among whom
was the distinguished Senator, and Hon. Henry C. Hedges,
Frank W. Pierson, J. M. Waugh, Frank K. Tracy, Maj.
Joseph S. Hedges, Hon. W. S. Kerr, J. R. Brown, Nelson
Ozier, Capt. W. S. Bradford, Hon. W. S. Cappeller, Hon.
W. M. Hahn, Capt. Joseph Brown, G. U. Harn, Maj. W.
W. Smith, Geo. C. Wise, Judge Jas. E. Lowry, James McCoy,
John Crum, Ried Carpenter, and Wm. C. Hedges, Jr.
Senator Sherman introduced the President, who spoke
briefly, saying:
My Fellow-citizens—We stop so frequently upon this journey
and our time at each station is so brief, that I cannot hope to say
anything that would be interesting or instructive. I thank you
most sincerely for these friendly manifestations. I am glad to be
permitted to stop at the home of your distinguished Senator and
my friend. [Cheers.] I am sure, however you may differ from him
in political opinion, the people of Mansfield and of Ohio are proud
of the eminence which he has attained in the counsels of the
Nation and of the distinguished service he has been able to render
to his country not only in Congress but in the Treasury Department.
[Cheers.] He is twin in greatness with that military brother who
led some of you, as he did me, in some of the great campaigns of
the war, and they have together rendered conspicuous services to
this country, which we, as they, love with devoted affection. We
have so many common interests and so much genuine friendliness
among the American people that except in the very heat and ardor
of a political campaign the people are kind to each other, and we
soon forget the rancor of these political debates. We ought never
to forget that we are American citizens; we ought never to forget
that we are put in charge of American interests, and that it is our
duty to defend them. [Applause.] Thanking you again for your
presence and kindliness, I bid you good-by. [Applause.]
AtWooster, the seat of the well-known university, the
presidential party received a rousing greeting, especially
from the students with their college cry. At the head of
the Committee of Reception was the venerable Professor
Stoddard, formerly professor of chemistry at Miami University
when Benjamin Harrison attended that institute.
Among other prominent townsmen who received the President
were: Hon. M. L. Smyser, Hon. A. S. McClure,
Jacob Frick, Col. C. V. Hard, Capt. Harry McClarran, Dr.
John A. Gann, Dr. R. N. Warren, Capt. R. E. Eddy, Lieut.
W. H. Woodland, W. O. Beebe, Dr. J. D. Robison, Wm.
Annat, John C. Hall, Enos Pierson, R. J. Smith, Samuel
Metzler, Geo. W. Reed, C. W. McClure, A. G. Coover, A.
M. Parish, Anthony Wright, Abram Plank, J. S. R. Overholt,
Jesse McClellan, David Nice, Andrew Branstetter,
Charles Landam, Wm. F. Kane, Capt. Lemuel Jeffries,
Sylvester F. Scovel, D.D., O. A. Hills, D.D., Jas. M.
Quinby, R. W. Funck, and Harry Heuffstot.
Congressman Smyser introduced the President, who
said:
My Fellow-citizens—If anything could relieve the sense of weariness
which is ordinarily incident to extended railroad travel, it
would be the exceeding kindness with which we have been everywhere
received by our fellow-citizens, and to look upon an audience
like that assembled here, composed in part of venerable men who
experienced the hardships of early life in Ohio, of some of those
venerable women who shared those labors and self-denials of early
life in the West, and in part of their sons, that gallant second
generation, who, in the time of the Nation's peril in 1861, sprang
to its defence and brought the flag home in honor [applause], and
in part of these young men here undergoing that discipline of
mind which is to fit them for useful American citizenship, full of
the ambitions of early manhood, and, I trust, rooted in the principles
of morality and loyalty [applause], and in part of these sweet-faced
children, coming from your schools and homes to brighten
with their presence this graver assembly. Where else in the
world could such a gathering be assembled? Where else so much[281]social order as here? The individual free to aspire and work, the
community its own police officer and guardian.
We are here as American citizens, having, first, duties to our
families, then to our neighborhood—to the institutions and business
with which we are connected—but above all, and through and
by all these duties, to our country and to God, by whose beneficial
guidance our Government was founded, by whose favor and protection
it has been preserved. [Applause.] Friendly to all peoples
of the world, we will not thwart their course or provoke quarrels
by unfriendly acts, neither will we be forgetful of the fact that we
are charged here first with the conservation and promotion of
American interests, and that our Government was founded for its
own citizenship. [Applause and cheers.] But I cannot speak at
further length. I must hurry on to other places, where kind people
are impatiently awaiting our coming, and to duties which will be
assumed and undertaken with more courage since I have so often
looked into the kind faces of the people whom I endeavor to serve.
[Applause.] Let me present to you now, and I do so with great
pleasure, one of the gentlemen called by me under the Constitution
to assist in the administration of the Government—one whom I
know you have learned to love and honor as you are now privileged
to know—Gen. Benjamin F. Tracy, the Secretary of the
Navy. [Cheers.]
AtOrrville, Wayne County, it was not contemplated to
stop; but so large and enthusiastic was the crowd the President
held a brief reception. Among the prominent townsmen
who welcomed him were: A. H. Walkey, S. N. Coe,
A. E. Clark, J. W. Hostetter, A. Dennison, N. S. Brice, D.
J. Luikheim, and John Trout.
In response to repeated cries of "speech," the President
said: "Fellow-citizens—The American people are very
kind"—at this point the train started, and the President
closed abruptly by saying-"and I feel sure that they
will here excuse my failure to make a speech." There
were loud shouts of laughter at the President's readiness
as the train pulled out.
AtMassillon several thousand people assembled and
great enthusiasm prevailed. The Committee of Reception
consisted of Hon. William M. Reed, Mayor of the city;
Prof. E. A. Jones, Hon. J. Walter McClymonds, Hon. S.
A. Conrad, William F. Ricks, Clement Russell, and Joseph
Grapevine, Esq. The Grand Army veterans and school
children were present in force. Mayor Reed made the
welcoming address.
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—The burden of obligation connected
with this visit is put upon me by the enthusiasm and
magnitude of this welcome which you have extended to me. It
gives me pleasure to stop for a brief moment in a city widely celebrated
for its industries, and among a people widely celebrated for
their virtues and intelligence. [Cheers.] It was especially gratifying
as we passed in your suburbs, one of these busy hives of
industry, to see upon the bank, waving with hearty cheers, the
operatives in their work-day clothes. It is of great interest to
know that you have these diversified industries among you. Your
lot would be unhappy and not prosperous if you were all pursuing
the same calling, even if it were the calling to which I belong, the
profession of the law. [Laughter.]
It is well that your interchanging industries and pursuits lean
upon and help each other, increasing and making possible indeed
the great prosperity which you enjoy. I hope it is true here that
everybody is getting a fair return for his labor. We cannot afford
in America to have any discontented classes, and if fair wages are
paid for fair work we will have none. [Cheers.] I am not one of
those who believe that cheapness is the highest good. I am not
one of those who believe that it can be to my interest, or to yours,
to purchase in the market anything below the price that pays to
the men who make it fair living wages. [Great cheering.] We
should all "live and let live" in this country. [Cheers.] Our
strength, our promise for the future, our security for social happiness
are in the contentment of the great masses who toil. It is in
kindly intercourse and relationship between capital and labor, each
having its appropriate increase, that we shall find the highest good,
the capitalist and employer everywhere extending to those who[283]work for human rights a kindly consideration with compensatory
wages. [Cheers.]
Now, to these children and Grand Army friends who greet me
here, I say, thank you and God speed you and good-by. [Cheers.]
Canton, the home of Hon. William McKinley, Jr.,
gave the President a most cordial and clamorous greeting.
The G. A. R. and other organizations were out in full
force. Among the leading citizens who welcomed the
Chief Executive were: W. K. Miller, W. L. Alexander,
Judge J. P. Fawcett, J. M. Campbell, Judge J. W. Underhill,
Andrew D. Braden, Col. J. E. Dougherty, Col. J. J.
Clark, N. Holloway, and Capt. C. T. Oldfield.
Major McKinley introduced the President, who addressed
the large assemblage, saying:
My Fellow-citizens—The inconvenience which you suffer to-day,
and under which I labor in attempting to speak to you, comes from
the fact that there are more of you here than can come within the
range of my voice, but not more, I assure you, my fellow-citizens,
than I can take and do take most hospitably in my regard.
[Cheers.] It gives me great pleasure to stand here in the prosperous
and growing city of Canton. I am glad to be at the home of
one with whom I have been associated in Congressional duties for
a number of years, and who in all personal relations with me, as I
believe in all personal relations with you, his neighbors, has won
my regard, as I am sure he has won yours [cheers]; and without
any regard to what may be thought of the McKinley bill, I am sure
here to-day you are all the good neighbors and friends of William
McKinley. [Cheers.] Kind-hearted and generous as he seems to
me, I am sure he has not failed in these social relations, whatever
judgment you may have of his political opinions, in making the
masses of the people proud of him as their distinguished friend.
[Cheers.]
You have here to-day the representatives of men from the shops,
from the railroads, from the stores, from the offices of your city.
You are living together in those helpful and interchanging relations
which make American life pleasant and which make American
cities prosperous. The foundation of our society is in the[284]motto that every man shall have such wages as will enable him
to live decently and comfortably, and rear his children as helpful
and safe and useful American citizens. [Cheers.] We all desire,
I am sure—every kindly heart—that all the relations between
employers and workmen shall be friendly and kind. I wish everywhere
the associations were closer and employers more thoughtful
of those who work for them. I am sure there is one thing in
which we all agree, whatever our views may be on the tariff or
finance, and that is, there is no prosperity that in the wide, liberal
sense does not embrace within it every deserving and industrious
man and woman in the community. [Cheers.] We are here all
responsible citizens, and we should all be free from anything that
detracts from our liberties and independence, or that retards the
development of our intelligence, morality, and patriotism.
I am glad here to speak to some, too, who were comrades in the
great struggle of the Civil War [cheers]; glad that there are here
soldiers who had part in that great success by which our institutions
were preserved and the control and sovereignty of the Constitution
and law were forever established. [Cheers.] To them,
and to all such friends, I extend to-day a hearty greeting, and
would if I could extend a comrade's hand. [Cheers.] And now,
my friends, the heat of this day, the exhaustion of a dozen speeches,
made at intervals as we have come along, renders it impossible
that I should speak to you longer. I beg to thank you all for your
presence. I beg to hope that, as American citizens, however we
differ about particular matters of legislation or administration,
we are all pledged, heart and soul, life and property, to the preservation
of the Union and to the honor of our glorious flag. [Great
cheering.]
AtAlliance the assembly was very large. A Reception
Committee, headed by Mayor J. M. Stillwell and comprising
the following leading citizens, met the President:
Hon. David Fording, H. W. Harris, T. R. Morgan, Wm.
Brinker, Madison Trail, Dr. J. H. Tressel, H. W. Brush,
W. H. Morgan, Thos. Brocklebank, Chas. Ott, Dr. W. P.
Preston, E. N. Johnston, J. H. Focht, W. H. Ramsey, W.
W. Webb, E. E. Scranton, Henry Heer, Jr., and Harper
Brosius.
Chairman Fording delivered a welcoming address and
introduced President Harrison, who in response said:
My Fellow-citizens—There is nothing in which the American
people are harder upon their public servants than in the insatiable
demand they make for public speech. I began talking before
breakfast this morning, and have been kept almost continuously at
it through the day, with scarcely time for lunch; and yet, as long
as the smallest residuum of strength or voice is left I cannot fail
to recognize these hearty greetings and to say some appreciative
word in return. I do very much thank you, and I do very deeply
feel the cordial enthusiasm with which you have received me. It
is very pleasant to know that as American citizens we love our
Government and its institutions, and are all ready to pay appropriate
respect to any public officer who endeavors in such light as
he has to do his public duty. This homage is not withheld by
one's political opponents, and it is pleasant to know that in all
things that affect the integrity and honor and perpetuity of our
Government we rise above party ties and considerations. The
interests of this Government are lodged with you. There is not
much that a President can do to shape its policy. He is charged
under the Constitution with the duty of making suggestions to
Congress, but, after all, legislation originates with the Congress of
the United States, and the policy of our laws is directed by it.
The President may veto, but he cannot frame a bill. Therefore it
is of great interest to you, and to all our people, that you should
choose such men to represent you in the Congress of the United
States as will faithfully promote those policies to which you have
given your intelligent adhesion. This country of ours is secure,
and social order is maintained, because the great masses of our
people live in contentment and some good measure of comfort.
God forbid that we should ever reach the condition which has been
reached by some other countries, where all that is before many of
their population is the question of bare subsistence, where it is
simply "how shall I find bread for to-day?" No hopes of accumulation;
no hope of comfort; no hope of education, or higher things
for the children that are to come after them. God be blessed that
that is not our condition in America! Here is a chance to every
man; here fair wages for fair work, with education for the masses,
with no classes or distinctions to keep down the ambitious young.
We have a happy lot. Let us not grumble if now and then things
are not prosperous as they might be. Let us think of the average,
and if this year's crop is not as full as we could wish, we have[286]already in these green fields the promise of a better one to come.
Let us not doubt that we are now—as I have seen the evidence of
it in a very extended trip through the West—entering upon an up
grade in all departments of business. [Cheers.] Everywhere I
went, in the great city of St. Louis and the smaller manufacturing
towns through which we passed, there was one story to tell—and
I have no doubt it is true in your midst—every wheel is running
and every hand is busy. [Cheers.] I believe the future is bright
before us for increasingly better times for all, and as it comes I
hope it may be so generally diffused that its kindly touch may be
felt by every one who hears me, and that its beneficent help may
come into every home. [Prolonged cheers.]
Letter to Western States Commercial Congress.
Thefirst Western States Commercial Congress met at
Kansas City, Mo., April 14, 1891. Delegations composed
mainly of business men, appointed by the Governors of the
various States and Territories, were present from the following
Western and Southern States and Territories:
Alabama, California, Colorado, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois,
Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan,
Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska,
Tennessee, Texas, Washington, Wisconsin, Wyoming,
New Mexico, and Oklahoma. On motion of Governor
Francis, of Missouri, State Senator H. B. Kelly, of Kansas,
was chosen Chairman of the Congress and Hon.
John W. Springer, of Illinois, Secretary. Letters of
regret were read from those who had been specially invited
to attend the Congress. Among the letters was
the following from President Harrison:
Hon. H. B. Kelly,Chairman, Kansas City, Mo.:
Dear Sir—I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
letter of March 24, inviting me to attend the meeting of the commercial
congress of the Western agricultural and mining States, to
assemble in Kansas City, April 14 to 19, for the purpose of consid[287]ering
measures affecting the general agricultural and business
prosperity of the Mississippi Valley States. I regret that it will
not be possible for me to accept this invitation. If I am not
detained here by public business I shall probably start about that
time for the Pacific coast by the Southern route; and if that purpose
should be thwarted it will be by considerations that will also
prevent the acceptance of your invitation.
A public discussion of the conditions affecting agricultural and
business prosperity cannot but be helpful, if it is conducted on
broad lines and is hospitable to differences of opinion. The extraordinary
development of the productions of agriculture which
has taken place in a recent period in this country by reason of the
rapid enlargement of the area of tillage under the favoring land
laws of the United States, very naturally has called attention to
the value, and, indeed, the necessity of larger markets. I am one
of those who believe that a home market is necessarily the best
market for the producer, as it measurably emancipates him in proportion
to its nearness from the exactions of the transportation
companies. If the farmer could deliver his surplus produce to the
consumer out of his farm-wagon his independence and his profits
would be larger and surer. It seems to me quite possible to attain
a largely increased market for our staple farm products without
impairing our home market by opening the manufacturing trades
to a competition in which foreign producers, paying a lower scale
of wages, would have the advantage. A policy that would reduce
the number of our people engaged in mechanical pursuits or
diminish their ability to purchase food products by reducing wages
cannot be helpful to those now engaged in agriculture. The farmers
insist that the prices of farm products have been too low—below
the point of fair living and fair profits. I think so too, but I venture
to remind them that the plea they make involves the concession
that things may be too cheap. A coat may be too cheap as
well as corn. The farmer who claims a good living and profits for
his work should concede the same to every other man and woman
who toils.
I look with great confidence to the completion of further reciprocal
trade arrangements, especially with the Central and South
American states, as furnishing new and large markets for meats,
breadstuffs, and an important line of manufactured products.
Persistent and earnest efforts are also being made, and a considerable
measure of success has already been attained, to secure the
removal of restrictions which we have regarded as unjust upon the
admission and use of our meats and live cattle in some of the[288]European countries. I look with confidence to a successful termination
of the pending negotiations, because I cannot but assume
that when the absolutely satisfactory character of the sanitary
inspections now provided by our law is made known to those foreign
states they will promptly relax their discriminating regulations.
No effort and none of the powers vested in the Executive
will be left unused to secure an end which is so desirable.
Your deliberations will probably also embrace consideration of
the question of the volume and character of our currency. It will
not be possible and would not be appropriate for me in this letter
to enter upon any elaborate discussion of these questions. One or
two things I will say, and first, I believe that every person who
thoughtfully considers the question will agree with me upon a
proposition which is at the base of all my consideration of the
currency question, namely, that any dollar, paper or coin, that is
issued by the United States must be made and kept in its commercial
uses as good as any other dollar. So long as any paper money
issued or authorized by the United States Government is accepted
in commercial use as the equivalent of the best coined dollar that
we issue, and so long as every coined dollar, whether of silver or
gold, is assured of an equivalent value in commercial use, there
need be no fear as to an excess of money. The more such money
the better. But, on the other hand, when any issue of paper or
coined dollars is, in buying and selling, rated at a less value than
other paper or coined dollars, we have passed the limit of safe
experiment in finance. If we have dollars of differing values, only
the poorest will circulate. The farmer and the laborer, who are
not in hourly touch with the ticker of the telegraph, will require,
above all other classes of our community, a dollar of full value.
Fluctuations and depreciations are always at the first cost of these
classes of our community. The banker and the speculator anticipate,
discount, and often profit by such fluctuations. It is very
easy, under the impulse of excitement of the stress of money stringency,
to fall into the slough of a depreciated or irredeemable
currency. It is a very painful and slow business to get out when
once in.
I have always believed, and do now more than ever believe, in
bimetallism, and favor the fullest use of silver in connection with
our currency that is compatible with the maintenance of the parity
of the gold and silver dollars in their commercial uses. Nothing,
in my judgment, would so much retard the restoration of the free
use of silver by the commercial nations of the world as legislation
adopted by us that would result in placing this country upon a basis[289]of silver monometallism. The legislation adopted by the first session
of the Fifty-first Congress I was assured by leading advocates of
free coinage—representatives of the silver States—would promptly
and permanently bring silver to $1.29 per ounce and keep it there.
That anticipation has not been realized. Our larger use of silver
has apparently, and for reasons not yet agreed upon, diminished
the demand for silver in China and India.
In view of the fact that it is impossible in this letter to elaborate,
and that propositions only can be stated, I am aware that what I
have said may be assailed in points where it is easily defensible,
but where I have not attempted to present the argument.
I have not before, excepting in an official way, expressed myself
on these subjects; but feeling the interest, dignity, and importance
of the assemblage in whose behalf you speak, I have ventured,
without bigotry of opinion, without any assumption of infallibility,
but as an American citizen, having a most earnest desire
that every individual and every public act of my life shall conduce
to the glory of our country and the prosperity of all our people, to
submit these views for your consideration.
President Harrisonstarted on his memorable journey
to Texas and the Pacific Coast States at 12:15 o'clock
Tuesday morning, April 14, 1891. The party consisted
of the President and Mrs. Harrison, Postmaster-General
John Wanamaker, Secretary of Agriculture J. M. Rusk,
Mr. and Mrs. Russell B. Harrison, Mrs. J. R. McKee, Mrs.
Dimmick, Maj. J. P. Sanger, Military Aid to the President,
Marshal Daniel M. Ransdell, Mr. and Mrs. Geo. W.
Boyd, Mr. E. F. Tibbott, stenographer to the President, and
Alfred J. Clark, O. P. Austin, and R. Y. Oulahan, press
representatives. At Chattanooga the party was joined
by the President's younger brother, Mr. Carter B. Harrison,
and wife, and at Los Angeles by Mr. C. L. Saunders.
The train that safely carried the head of the Nation on this
great tour was a marvel of mechanical perfection unrivalled[290]in equipment. Mr. Geo. W. Boyd, General Assistant Passenger
Agent of the Pennsylvania Railroad, prepared the
schedule and had charge of the train throughout.
No predecessor of President Harrison ever attempted
the great task of travelling 10,000 miles, or delivering 140
impromptu addresses within the limit of 30 days—an
achievement remarkable in many respects. His long-extended
itinerary was an almost continuous series of receptions
and responses, and there is no instance where any
man in public life, subjected to the requirements of a
similar hospitable ordeal, has acquitted himself with
greater dignity, tact, and good sense both as to the matter
and manner of his utterances. This series of speeches is
in marked contrast with his incisive utterances during the
campaign of 1888, and disclose General Harrison's ability
to seize the vital topic of the moment and present it to a
mixed audience in such a way that while consistent with
his own record he yet raises no antagonisms.
LeavingWashington shortly after midnight, the train
passed through Lynchburg at an early hour and arrived at
Roanoke, its first stopping-point, at 8:50A.M.Seemingly
the entire population of the enterprising city was out to
welcome the President to Old Virginia. Prominent among
those who greeted the party were Mr. and Mrs. Charles G.
Eddy, W. B. Bevill, John A. Pack, Allen Hull, A. S. Asberry,
and John D. Smith.
After shaking hands with several hundred, President
Harrison, in response to repeated calls, spoke as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—I desire to thank you very sincerely for this
friendly greeting. The State of Virginia is entitled, I think, to
high estimation among the States for its great history—for the
contribution it has made to the great story of our common country.
This fact you discovered, I think, long ago. For personal reasons[291]I have great affection for Virginia. It is the State of my fathers.
I am glad this morning to congratulate you upon the marvellous
development which has come, and the greater which is coming, to
your commonwealth.
You not only have an illustrious story behind you, but before
you prospects of development in wealth and prosperity, in all that
makes a great State, such as never entered into the imagination of
those who laid the foundation of the commonwealth. [Cheers.]
You are arousing now to a realization of the benefits of diversity
of industries.
In the olden time Virginia was a plantation State. I hope she
may never cease to have large agricultural interests. It is the
foundation of stable society, but I rejoice with you that she has
added to agriculture the mining of coal and iron, and, bringing
these from their beds, is producing all the products that enter into
the uses of life.
In this is the secret of that great growth illustrating what I see
about me here, and the promise of a future which none of us can
fully realize. In all of these things we have a common interest,
and I beg to assure you that in everything that tends to the social
order of your people and the development and increased prosperity
of the State of Virginia I am in most hearty sympathy with you
all. [Cheers.]
Thetown of Radford, Va., acknowledged the honor of
the President's visit in a cordial way. General Harrison
shook hands with many of the inhabitants. At Bristol,
Tenn., a crowd of several thousand greeted the party at
the station. The President was met and escorted to a high
bluff overlooking the city by Hon. Harvey C. Wood, at the
head of the following committee of prominent citizens:
Col. E. C. Manning, Hon. I. C. Fowler, Judge M. B. Wood,
A. S. McNeil, W. A. Sparger, A. C. Smith, C. H. Slack,
Rockingham Paul, Esq., Capt. J. H. Wood, Judge C. J.
St. John, Col. Nat M. Taylor, and John H. Caldwell.
Judge Wood made the welcoming address and introduced
the President, who, in response, said:
My Fellow-citizens—I have found not only pleasure but instruction
in riding to-day through a portion of the State of Virginia
that is feeling in a very striking way the impulse of a new development.
It is extremely gratifying to notice that those hidden
sources of wealth which were so long unobserved and so long
unused are now being found, and that these regions, once so retired,
occupied by a pastoral people, having difficult access to the centres
of population, are now being rapidly transformed into busy manufacturing
and commercial centres.
In the early settlement of this city the emigrants poured over the
Alleghanies and the Blue Ridge like waters over an obstructing
ledge, seeking the fertile and attractive farm regions of the great
West. They passed unobserved these marvellous hidden stores of
wealth which are now being brought into use. Having filled those
great basins of the West, they are now turning back to Virginia
and West Virginia and Tennessee to bring about a development
and production for which the time is ripe, and which will surprise
the world. [Cheers.]
It has not been long since every implement of iron, domestic, agricultural,
and mechanical, was made in other States. The iron point
of the wooden mould-board plough with which the early farmers
here turned the soil came from distant States. But now Virginia
and Tennessee are stirring their energies to participate in a large
degree in mechanical productions and in the great awakening of
American influence which will lift the Nation to a place among
the nations of the world never before attained. [Cheers.]
What hinders us, secure in the market of our own great population,
from successful competition in the markets of the world?
What hinders our people, possessing every element of material
wealth and endowed with inventive genius and energy unsurpassed,
from having again upon the seas a merchant marine flying the flag
of our country and carrying its commerce into every sea and every
port?
I am glad to stand for this moment among you, glad to express
my sympathy with you in every enterprise that tends to develop
your State and local communities; glad to stand with you upon
the one common platform of respect to the Constitution and the law,
differing in our policies as to what the law should be, but pledged
with a common devotion and obedience to law as the majority
shall by their expressions make it.
I shall carry away from here a new impulse to public duty, a
new inspiration as a citizen with you of a country whose greatness
is only dawning. And may I now express the pleasure I shall[293]have in every good that comes to you as a community and to each
of you as individuals? May peace, prosperity, and social order
dwell in your communities, and the fear and love of God in every
home! [Cheers.]
ThePresident was welcomed at Johnson City by 3,000
people. S. K. N. Patton Post, G. A. R, with Maj. A.
Cantwell, J. M. Erwin, and W. Hodges, acted as a guard of
honor to the Chief Magistrate. The committee to receive
and entertain the President comprised: Mayor Ike T.
Jobe, Hon. W. G. Mathes, President Board of Trade; Hon.
T. F. Singiser, Hon. A. B. Bowman, Hon. B. F. Childress,
Thos. E. Matson, Jas. M. Martin, J. C. Campbell, H. C.
Chandler, J. W. Cox, C. W. Marsh, L. W. Wood, J. A.
Mathes, H. W. Hargraves, J. F. Crumley, M. N. Johnson,
and W. W. Kirkpatrick.
Congressman Alfred A. Taylor presented the President,
who spoke as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—The office of President of the United States
is one of very high honor and is also one of very high responsibility.
No man having conscientiously at heart the good of the
whole people, whose interests are, under the law, in some degree
committed to his care, can fail to feel a most oppressive sense of
inadequacy when he comes to the discharge of these high functions.
Elected under a system of government which gives to the majority
of our people who have expressed their wishes through constitutional
methods the right to choose their public servants, when
he has taken the oath that inducts him into office he becomes the
servant of all the people, and while he may pursue the advocacy of
those measures to which the people have given their approval by
his choice, he should always act and speak with a reserve and a
respect for the opinion of others that shall not alienate from him
the good-will of his fellow-citizens, without regard to political
belief.
I shall not speak of what has been done, but I have a supreme
regard for the honor of the Nation, a profound respect for the Constitution,
and a most sincere desire to meet the just expectations[294]of my fellow-citizens. I am not one of those who believe that the
good of any class can be permanently and largely attained except
upon lines which promote the good of all our people.
I rejoice in the Union of the States. I rejoice to stand here in
East Tennessee among a people who so conspicuously and at such
sacrifice during the hour of the Nation's peril stood by the flag and
adhered to their convictions of public duty [cheers]; and I am
especially glad to be able to say that those who, following other
views of duty, took sides against us in that struggle, without division
in voice or heart to-day praise Almighty God that He preserved
us one Nation. [Cheers.]
There is no man, whatever his views upon the questions that
then divided us, but, in view of the marvellous benefits which are
disseminating themselves over these States, must also bless God
to-day that slavery no longer exists and that the Union of free
States is indissoluble. [Cheers.]
What is it that has stirred the public of this great region, that
has kindled these furnace fires, that has converted these retired
and isolated farms upon which you and your ancestors dwelt into
centres of trade and mechanical pursuits, bringing a market close
to the door of the farmer and bringing prosperity into every home?
It is that we have no line of division between the States; it is
that these impulses of freedom and enterprise, once limited in
their operations, are now common in all the States. We have a
common heritage. The Confederate soldier has a full, honorable,
and ungrudged participation in all the benefits of a great and just
Government. [Cheers.]
I do not doubt to-day that these would be among the readiest of
our population to follow the old flag if it should be assailed from
any quarter. [Cheers.]
Now, my fellow-countrymen, I can pause but a moment with
you. It does me good to look into your faces, to receive these
evidences of your good-will. I hope I may have guidance and
courage in such time as remains to me in public life conscientiously
to serve the public good and the common glory of our
beloved country. [Great cheering.]
AtJonesboro, the oldest city in Tennessee and the ancient
capital of the State of Franklin, the President was
the recipient of a most cordial welcome. All the residents
of the town seemed to be present. Among the prominent
citizens who participated in the greeting were: Mayor I.
E. Reeves, Judge Newton Hacker, R. M. May, Col. T.
H. Reeves, A. J. Patterson, S. H. Anderson, Capt. A. S.
Deaderick, James H. Epps, Jacob Leab, S. H. L. Cooper,
Judge A. J. Brown, John D. Cox, E. H. West, J. A. Febuary,
T. B. Hacker, R. N. Dosser, Capt. Geo. McPherson,
and Chancellor J. P. Smith.
General Harrison's allusion to John Sevier and his struggle
to establish the State of Franklin elicited hearty applause.
He spoke as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—We tarry but a moment at this ancient and
interesting city, whose story goes back, I think, to the establishment
of the State of Franklin, of which perhaps not all of you,
certainly not these little ones, ever heard, which John Sevier
attempted to set up as an independent commonwealth.
But yet it is not of antiquity that I desire to speak, for ancient
history is not of the greatest interest to you now. The Scripture
speaks, I think—my Postmaster-General is near, and if I fall into
error will correct me [laughter]—of a time when the old things
shall pass away and all things shall become new. Tennessee is
realizing that beatitude; the old things, the old way of doing
things, the stiff clay and steep mountain roads have passed away
and the steam-car has come.
The old times of isolation in these valleys, when these pioneers,
some of whom I see, made their frontier homes, have passed away,
and influences from the outside have come; life has been made
easier to men and easier to the toiling women who used to carry
the water from the spring at the bottom of the hill in a piggin,
but who now by modern appliances have it brought into the
kitchen.
You have come to know now that not only the surface of the soil
has wealth in it, but that under the surface there are vast sources
of wealth to gladden the homes of your people and to bring with
new industries a thrifty population. But of all these old things[296]that have passed away and the new ones that have come, I am
sure you are exultantly glad in this region, where there was so
much martyrdom for the flag, so much exile, so much suffering,
that the one Union, the one Constitution, and the one flag might
be preserved, to know that those old strifes have passed away, and
that a period of fraternity has come when all men are for the flag
and all for the Constitution, when it has been forever put out of
the minds of all people that this Union can be dissolved or this
Constitution overthrown. [Great cheering.]
On all these new things I congratulate the citizens of Tennessee.
Turn your faces to the morning, for the sun is lightening the hilltops;
there is coming to our country a great growth, an extraordinary
development, and you are to be full participants in it all.
While other nations of the world have reached a climax in their
home development, and are struggling to parcel out remote regions
of the earth that their commerce may be extended, we have here
prodigious resources that are yet to be touched by the finger of
development, and we have the power, if we will, to put our flag
again on the sea and to share in the world's commerce. [Cheers.]
Thehome of President Andrew Johnson—Greenville,
Tenn.—gave the President a cordial greeting through its
welcoming committee, consisting of Mayor John M. Brabson,
Aldermen A. N. Shown, J. D. Britton, E. C. Miller,
and W. H. Williams; also Burnside Post, G. A. R., W.
T. Mitchell Commander; A. J. Frazier, and the children
of the public schools, in charge of Principal L. McWhisler.
My Fellow-citizens—The arrangements for our journey will not
permit me to tarry with you long. I thank you most sincerely for
this cordial demonstration. I rejoice to see in the hands of the
children here that banner of glory which is the symbol of our
greatness and the promise of our security.
I am glad that by the common consent of all our people, without
any regard to past differences, we have once and forever struck
hands upon the proposition that from the lakes to the gulf, from
the St. Lawrence to the Bay of California, there shall be one flag
and one Constitution. [Great cheering.] The story that it brings[297]to us from the time of its adoption as our national emblem is one
in which we may all find instruction and inspiration. It is the
flag of the free.
It symbolizes a government most aptly expressed by the greatest
statesman of the people, Abraham Lincoln, to be "a government
of the people, by the people, and for the people"—a government
that spreads a sky of hope above the head of every child, that has
abolished all class distinctions, and has opened all places of eminence
and usefulness in the state and in commerce to the ambitious
and energetic young man.
This city has given to the country a conspicuous illustration in
your distinguished former fellow-citizen, Andrew Johnson, of what
free institutions may do, and what an aspiring young man may
do against all adverse conditions in life. To every one perfect
freedom is guaranteed within the limits of due respect to the rights
of others. Thanking you again for this presence and friendly
greeting, I bid you good-by.
AtMorristown several thousand citizens and residents
of Hamblen, Cocke, Grainger, and Jefferson counties assembled
to greet the President. The Reception Committee
was Mayor W. S. Dickson, R. L. Gaut, H. Williams,
W. H. Maze, A. S. Jenkins, and James A. Goddard. At
the conclusion of the President's speech an old grizzled
veteran stepped upon the platform, and reaching out his
hand said: "Mr. President, I was in that Atlanta campaign,
on the other side, and helped to keep you back, but now
the war is over I'm proud to take your hand." The President
showed great pleasure at this greeting, and held the
old soldier's hand several minutes, the spectators meanwhile
cheering lustily. A large number of ex-Confederates
witnessed this incident.
President Harrison's speech on the occasion was as
follows:
My Fellow citizens—It will not be possible for me to speak to you
for more than a moment, and yet I cannot refuse, in justice to my[298]own feelings, to express my deep appreciation of your cordial
reception. I visit to-day for the first time East Tennessee, but it
is a region in which I have always felt a profound interest and for
whose people I have always entertained a most sincere respect.
It seems to be true in the history of man that those who are
called to dwell among mountain peaks, in regions where the convulsions
of nature have lifted the rocks toward the sky, have
always been characterized by a personal independence of character,
by a devotion to liberty, and by courage in defence of their rights
and their homes. The legends that cluster about the mountain
peaks of Scotland and the patriotic devotion that makes memorable
the passes of Switzerland have been repeated in the mountains of
East Tennessee.
In those periods of great struggles, when communications were
difficult and often interrupted, the hearts of the people of Indiana
went out to the beleaguered friends of the Union beyond the Cumberland
Gap. I am glad to know that it is no longer difficult to
reach you for succor or for friendly social intercourse, for travel
has been quickened and made easy. Some one mentioned just now
that it was only four hours and a half from Chattanooga to Atlanta.
That is not my recollection [laughter]; I think we spent as many
months making that trip. [Laughter.]
I am glad to know that now, by the consent of all your people,
without regard to the differences that separated you then, your
highways are open to all of us, without prejudice; that your hearts
are true to the Union and the Constitution, and that the high sense
of public duty which then characterized you still abides among
your people. May your valleys be always full of prosperity, your
homes the abode of affection and love, and of all that makes the
American home the best of all homes and the sure nursery of good
citizens. [Cheers.]
Onthe evening of the first day of the journey Knoxville
was reached. The distinguished travellers were welcomed
by a citizens' committee, composed of William Rule, Chairman;
Col. E. J. Sanford, Hon. J. C. J. Williams, Hon. L.
C. Houk, Col. J. Vandeventer, M. L. Ross, John T. Hearn,
Alex. Summers, Wm. M. Baxter, F. A. Moses, John W.
Conner, B. R. Strong, Hon. Peter Kern, Capt. W. P. Cham[299]berlain,
Col. J. B. Minnis, W. H. Simmonds, John L.
Hudiburg, Capt. A. J. Albers, Hon. J. W. Caldwell, and
W. P. Smith. After visiting Fort Sanders and viewing
the battle-field by twilight the party returned to the city,
where a vast audience was assembled.
Col. William A. Henderson introduced the President,
who spoke as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—It gives me pleasure to visit this historical
city—a city that has given to the country many men who have
been eminent in its councils and brought to the Nation they served
and to the people who called them into the public service great
honor. I am glad to visit East Tennessee, the scene of that early
immigration and of those early struggles of men who, for vigor of
intellect, strength of heart, and devotion to republican principles,
were among the most conspicuous of the early pioneers of the
West and Southwest.
I am glad to know that that deep devotion to the cause of the
Union which manifested itself in the early contributions of Tennessee
to the armies that went to the defence of the homes of the
Northwest abides still in these valleys and crowns with its glory
and lustre every hill-top of the Alleghanies. You are feeling now
a material development that is interesting and pleasing to all your
fellow-citizens of the States.
I beg to say to you that whoever supposes that there is anywhere
in the Northern States any jealousy of this great material progress
which the South is making wholly misconceives the friendly heart
of the people of the North. It is my wish, as I am sure it is the
wish of all with whom I associate in political life, that the streams
of prosperity in the South may run bank-full; that in everything
that promotes the prosperity of the State, the security and comfort
of the community, and the happiness of the individual home, your
blessings may be full and unstinted.
We live in a Government of law. The compact of our organization
is that a majority of our people, taking those methods which
are prescribed by the Constitution and law, shall determine our
public policies and choose our rulers. It is our solemn compact;
it cannot safely be broken. We may safely differ about policies;
we may safely divide upon the question as to what shall be the
law; but when the law is once enacted no community can safely
divide on the question of implicit obedience to the law.
It is the one rule of conduct for us all. I may not choose as[300]President what laws I will enforce, and the citizen may not
choose what laws he will obey. Upon this broad principle our
institutions rest. If we save it, all the agitations and tumults of
our campaigns, exciting though they may be, will be harmless to
move our Government from its safe and abiding foundation.
If we abandon it, all is gone. Therefore, my appeal everywhere
is to hold the law in veneration and reverence. We have no other
king; public officers are your servants; but in the august and
majestic presence of the law we all uncover and bow the knee.
May every prosperity attend you. May this ground, made memorable
by one of the most gallant assaults and by one of the most
successful defences in the story of the war, never again be stained
by blood; but may our people, in one common love of one flag and
one Constitution, in a common and pervading fealty to the great
principles of our Government, go on to achieve material wealth,
and in social development, in intelligence, in piety, in everything
that makes a nation great and a people happy, secure all the Lord
has in His mind for a Nation that He has so conspicuously blessed.
[Great and prolonged cheering.]
Chattanoogawas reached Wednesday morning at 8:30
o'clock. The President was received with marked cordiality
and enthusiasm by the several thousand citizens assembled
at the station. At this point the party was joined
by the President's younger brother, Mr. Carter B. Harrison,
and his wife, of Murfreesboro, Tenn. The following
prominent citizens comprised the committee that received
the President: Hon. J. B. Merriam, Mayor of Chattanooga;
Hon. H. Clay Evans, Judge David M. Key, H. S.
Chamberlain, D. J. O'Connell, Henophen Wheeler, John
Crimmins, Maj. J. F. Shipp, Col. Tomlinson Fort, John
T. Wilder, Adolph S. Ochs, John B. Nicklin, L. G.
Walker, A. J. Gahagan, C. E. James, F. G. Montague, H.
M. Wiltse, John W. Stone, J. B. Pound, E. W. Mattson,
and Judge Whiteside.
The committee escorted the distinguished guests to the[301]summit of Lookout Mountain. At the Lookout Inn President
Harrison pointed out to his immediate companions
the spot where he was encamped for a time during the war.
From the mountain the party was driven about the city,
which was profusely decorated. All the school children in
the city stood in front of their respective schools and waved
flags and shouted as the President and Mrs. Harrison
drove by. Assembled around the platform where the general
reception was held were many thousand people.
Ex-Congressman Evans, amid deafening cheers, introduced
the President, who said:
My Fellow-citizens—I have greatly enjoyed the opportunity of
seeing Chattanooga again. I saw it last as the camp of a great
army. Its only industries were military, its stores were munitions
of war, its pleasant hill-tops were torn with rifle-pits, its civic
population the attendants of an army campaign. I see it to-day a
great city, a prosperous commercial centre. I see these hill-tops,
then bristling with guns, crowned with happy homes; I see these
streets, through which the worn veterans of many campaigns then
marched, made glad with the presence of happy children. Everything
is changed.
The wand of an enchanter has touched these hills, and old Lookout,
that frowned over the valleys from which the plough had been
withdrawn, now looks upon the peaceful industries of country life.
All things are changed, except that the flag that then floated over
Chattanooga floats here still. [Cheers.] It has passed from the
hand of the veterans, who bore it to victory in battle, into the
hands of the children, who lift it as an emblem of peace. [Cheers.]
Then Chattanooga was war's gateway to the South; now it is the
gateway of peace, commerce, and prosperity. [Cheers.]
There have been two conquests—one with arms, the other with
the gentle influences of peace—and the last is greater than the first.
[Cheers.] The first is only great as it made way for that which
followed; and now, one again in our devotion to the Constitution
and the laws, one again in the determination that the question of
the severance of the federal relations of these States shall never
again be raised, we have started together upon a career of prosperity
and development that has as yet given only the signs of
what is to come.
I congratulate Tennessee, I congratulate this prosperous city, I[302]congratulate all those who through this gateway give and receive
the interchanges of friendly commerce, that there is being wrought
throughout our country a unification by commerce, a unification
by similarity of institutions and habits, that shall in time erase
every vestige of difference, and shall make us, not only in contemplation
of the law, but in heart and sympathy, one people.
[Cheers.]
I thank you for your cordial greeting to-day, and hope for the
development of the industries of our country and for the settling
of our institutions upon the firm base of a respect for the law. In
this glad springtime, while the gardens are full of blossoms and
the fields give promise of another harvest, and your homes are full
of happy children, let us thank God for what He has wrought for
us as a people, and, each in our place, resolutely maintain the
great idea upon which everything is builded—the rule of the
majority, constitutionally expressed, and the absolute equality of
all men before the law. [Cheers.]
Thefirst stop after crossing the Georgia State line was
Cartersville, where a citizens' committee, headed by M.
G. Dobbins, W. H. Howard, and Walter Akerman, received
the President, who in response to repeated calls
said:
My Friends—I am very much obliged to you for coming here in
this shower to show your good-will. I can only assure you that I
entirely reciprocate your good feelings. I have had great pleasure
to-day in passing over some parts of the old route that I took once
before under very different and distressing circumstances, to find
how easy it is, when we are all agreed, to travel between Chattanooga
and Atlanta. I am glad to see the evidences of prosperity
that abound through your country, and I wish you in all your
relations every human good. [Cheers.]
Thepresidential party travelled over the Western and
Atlantic route from Chattanooga to Atlanta, passing
through historic battle-grounds with which the President
and other members of his party were once familiar. General
Harrison actively participated in the Atlanta campaign
and held the chief command at the battle of Resaca.
It was with keen interest, therefore, that he viewed this
memorable field in company with Marshal Ransdell, who
lost an arm there. Short stops were made at the battle-fields
of Chickamauga, Tunnel Hill, Resaca, Dug Gap, and Kennesaw.
At Marietta the President was met by a committee
from the city government of Atlanta, consisting of Mayor
W. A. Hemphill, Aldermen Hutchison, Woodward, Rice,
Shropshire, and Middlebrooks; Councilmen Murphy, Hendrix,
Lambert, Holbrook, Sawtell, King, Turner, McBride,
and City Clerk Woodward. These officials were accompanied
by a special committee of citizens representing
the Chamber of Commerce and the veteran associations,
comprising ex-Gov. R. B. Bullock, Gen. J. R. Lewis, Capt.
John Milledge, Julius L. Brown, S. M. Inman, Hon. J. T.
Glenn, and Hon. W. L. Calhoun.
A vast throng greeted the President's arrival. Gov.
William J. Northen and the other members of the Reception
Committee received the party. Governor Northen
said: "I am glad to welcome your excellency to the
State of Georgia. You will find among us a loyal and
hospitable people, and in their name I welcome you to the
State."
Replying, the President said it gave him great pleasure
to visit the Empire State of the South, the wonderful evidences
of the prosperity of which were manifest in the stirring
city of Atlanta.
In the evening the President and his party were tendered
a reception at the Capitol by Governor Northen and Mayor
Hemphill, assisted by Chief-Justice Bleckley, Judge Simmons,
Judge Lumpkin, Gen. Phil. Cook, Comptroller-General
Wright, Judge Van Epps, and the following
prominent citizens: E. P. Chamberlin, J. W. Rankin, G.
T. Dodd, Judge Hook, R. J. Lowry, J. W. English, Hoke
Smith, Phil. Breitenbucher, J. G. Oglesby, John Silvey,
Capt. Harry Jackson, Jacob Haas, W. L. Peel, B. F. Abbott,
John Fitten, Joe Hirsch, George Hillyer, A. A. Murphy,
P. Romare, J. B. Goodwin, David Wyly, G. H. Tanner,
Dr. Henry S. Wilson, J. F. Edwards, M. A. Hardin,
A. J. McBride, John J. Doonan, Hugh Inman, J. H. Mountain,
M. C. Kiser, E. P. Howell, A. E. Buck, Edgar
Angier, Col. L. M. Terrell, S. A. Darnell, John C. Manly,
T. B. Neal, Walter Johnson, Major Mims, W. R. Brown,
Col. T. P. Westmoreland, Albert Cox, Clarence Knowles,
H. M. Atkinson, J. C. Kimball, C. A. Collier, Rhode Hill,
Howard Van Epps, W. H. Venable, G. W. Adair, F. T.
Ryan, L. P. Thomas, H. F. Starke, W. A. Wright, Amos
Fox, R. L. Rodgers, H. C. Divine, W. M. Scott, A. B. Carrier,
W. B. Miles, T. C. Watson, and L. B. Nelson.
At the conclusion of the reception the President, accompanied
by Mayor Hemphill, Hon. A. L. Kontz, and Superintendent
Slaton, visited the night school, where the boys
gave him an enthusiastic welcome and called for a speech.
I am glad to be with you to-night. Having but a few minutes
to spare I would offer a few words of encouragement to you. Most,
if not all, of you are here at night because your circumstances are
such that the day must be given to toil. The day is your earning
period. The night must, therefore, be set apart for study. I am
glad to see that so many find it in your hearts to be here in this
school; it is a very hopeful sign. I think it has in it the promise
that you will each become a useful citizen in this country. Pluck
and energy are two essential elements. A boy wants to be something.
With pluck and energy success is assured. There is a
day of hope above every one of you.
I bid you good cheer and would offer encouragement to every
one of you, and I know every one of you may be useful and honorable
citizens in this community, whose officers have taken the
interest to organize this school for your benefit. I very sincerely
and earnestly wish you God-speed. Stick to your studies and
don't neglect to acquire a needful education, and you may one day
occupy the positions of honor which are held by those to-day in
charge of the affairs of your city.
Onthe morning of the 16th the President's party
bade adieu to Atlanta. More than 10,000 people were
present. Mayor Hemphill invited the President to the
rear platform of the train and presented him to the assemblage.
In response to their cheers he said:
My Fellow-citizens—I desire, in parting from you, to give public
expression of my satisfaction and enjoyment in my brief visit to
Atlanta. I saw this city once under circumstances of a very unfavorable
character. I did not think I would like it, although we
were making great efforts to get it. [Laughter.] I am glad after
all these years to see the great prosperity and development that has
come to you. I think I am able to understand some of the influences
that are at the bottom of it, and I am sure that I look into
the faces of a community that, whatever their differences may
have been, however they viewed the question of the war when it
was upon us, can have but one thought as to what was best. We
can all say with the Confederate soldier who carried a gun for
what seemed to him to be right, that God knew better than any of
us what was best for the country and for the world.
You are thankful for what He has wrought and chiefly for emancipation.
It has opened up to diversified industries these States
that were otherwise exclusively agricultural, and made it possible
for you not only to raise cotton, but to spin and weave it, and has
made Georgia such a State as it could not have been under the old
conditions. I am sure we have many common purposes, and as
God shall give us power to see truth and right, let us do our duty,
and, while exacting all our own rights, let us bravely and generously
give every other man his equal rights before the law.
[Cheers.]
Thanking you for your reception, which has been warm and[306]hospitable, I go from you very grateful for your kindness and very
full of hope for your future.
I cannot wish more than that those enterprising land-owners
whose work in grading and laying new additions I saw yesterday
will realize all their hopes. I am very sure if that is done Atlanta
will not long be rated the second city of the South. [Cheers.]
At the conclusion of the President's address there were
many calls for Mr. Wanamaker. These finally brought
the Postmaster-General to the platform, who said:
That man is unfortunate who is called on to speak after a President.
But at such a moment as this, parting from people who in
a single night have shown so much kindness and good-fellowship,
it is not difficult to return at least our grateful thanks for your
most generous welcome. Of all objects in your city I have looked
with most interest upon the house where a great light had gone
out, and felt again the common sorrow in the absence of Henry
Grady, a man whose life and influences were larger than Atlanta.
The words he spoke and the principles he stood for cannot be forgotten.
If we can but learn to know each other and understand
each other there will be fewer differences than might be supposed.
By more frequent intercourse and a fairer consideration of each
other we should rise to a higher level of happiness. I wish we had
come sooner and could stay longer. [Cheers.]
Thecity of Tallapoosa was bedecked with flags and
bunting in honor of the distinguished visitors, and gave
the President a cordial reception. Mayor A. J. Head and
the following representative citizens were among those
who greeted the Chief Executive: James H. Rineard,
Walker Brock, U. G. Brock, J. A. Head, R. M. Strickland,
J. C. Parker, W. T. King, R. G. Bently, T. J. Barrett, J.
T. Tuggle, R. J. McBride, G. W. Bullard, C. Tallafario, J.
A. Burns, J. R. Knapp, C. W. Fox, M. C. Reeve, M. Munson,
W. W. Summerlin, S. J. Cason, J. H. Davis, S. White,
A. Hass, T. L. Dougherty, G. A. Stickney, N. L. Hutchens,[307]O. F. Sampson, H. Martin, M. C. Haiston, G. W. Tumlin,
and J. C. Murrey.
Responding to the welcoming cheers the President addressed
the assembly as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—This large assemblage of people from this
new and energetic city is very pleasant, and I thank you for the
welcome that it implies. All of these evidences of extending
industry are extremely pleasing to me as I observe them. They
furnish employment to men; they imply comfortable homes, contented
families, a safe social organization, and are the strength of
the Nation.
I am glad to see that these enterprises that are taking the ores
from the earth and adapting them to the uses of civilization have
not been started here unaccompanied by that more important work—the
work of gathering the children into the schools and instructing
them, that they in their turn may be useful men and women.
[Applause.] I am glad to greet these little ones this morning; it
is a cheerful sight. We are soon to lay down the work of life and
the responsibilities of citizenship, these mothers are soon to quit
the ever-recurring and never-ending work of the home and give it
into new hands.
It is of the utmost consequence that these little ones be trained
in mind and taught the fear of God and a benevolent regard for
their fellow-men, in order that their lives and social relations may
be peaceful and happy. We are citizens of one country, having
one flag and one destiny. We are starting upon a new era of
development, and I hope this development is to keep pace and to
be the promoting cause of a very perfect unification of our people.
[Cheers.]
We have a Government whose principles are very simple and
very popular. The whole theory of our institutions is that, pursuing
those election methods which we have prescribed under the
Constitution, every man shall exercise freely the right that the
suffrage law confides to him, and that the majority, if it has
expressed its will, shall conclude the issue for us all. There is no
other foundation. This was the enduring base upon which the
fathers of our country placed our institutions. Let us always keep
them there. Let us press the debate in our campaigns as to what
the law should be; but let us keep faith and submit with the reverence
and respect which are due to the law when once lawfully
enacted. [Applause.]
The development which is coming to you in these regions of the[308]South is marvellous. In ten years you increased your production
of iron about 300 per cent.—nearly a million and a quarter of tons—and
you have only begun to open these mines and to put these
ores to the process of reduction. Now, I want to leave this thought
with you: In the old plantations of the South you got everything
from somewhere else; why not make it all yourselves? [Cheers.]
Manythousands greeted the President on his arrival at
Anniston. The Reception Committee consisted of Mayor
James Noble, J. W. Lapsley, H. W. Bailey, T. G. Garrett,
B. F. Cassady, John J. Mickle, C. H. Camfield, J. J. Willett,
J. C. Sproull, R. H. Cobb, I. Finch, and Alex. S.
Thweatt. The committee appointed by the Alabama State
Sunday-School Association, then in session, was: Joseph
Hardie, Geo. B. Eager, P. P. Winn, M. J. Greene, and C.
W. O'Hare. On the part of the colored citizens the Committee
of Reception was: Rev. W. H. McAlpine, Wm. J.
Stevens, S. E. Moses, Rev. J. F. Fitspatrick, and Rev.
Jas. W. Brown. Daniel Tyler Post, G. A. R., H. Rosenbaum,
Commander, G. B. Randolph acting Adjutant, also
participated. The Hon. John M. McKleroy delivered the
address of welcome, followed by Wm. J. Stevens in behalf
of the colored people.
Fellow-citizens—I very much regret that I am able to make so
little return to you for this cordial manifestation of your respect
and friendship; and yet, even in these few moments which I am
able to spend with you, I hope I shall gather and possibly be able
to impart some impulse that may be mutually beneficial. I am
glad to see with the eye that of which I have kept informed—the
great development which is taking place in the mineral regions
of the Southern States.
I remember, as a boy, resident upon one of the great tributaries
of the Mississippi, how the agricultural products of those States,
the corn and provisions raised upon the fertile acres of the Ohio
and Mississippi valleys, were marketed in the South. The old[309]broad-horn took its way down the Mississippi, stopping at the
plantations to sell the provisions upon which the people of the
South were largely sustained. The South was then essentially a
plantation region, producing one or two great staples that found a
ready market in the world, but dependent for its implements of
industry and domestic utensils upon the States of the North
Mississippi Valley.
I am glad all this is changed, that you are realizing the benefits
of diversified agriculture, and that the production upon your farms
of the staples which you once bought elsewhere is largely increasing;
and I am glad that to diversified agriculture you have also
added these great mechanical pursuits which have brought into
your communities artisans and laborers who take from the adjacent
farms the surplus of your fertile lands. [Cheers.] There has been
received in the South since the war not less than $8,000,000,000 for
cotton, and while I rejoice in that, I am glad to know that in this
generous region there are near 100,000 acres devoted to raising
watermelons. [Laughter.]
No farmer, certainly no planter in the old time, would have consented
to sell watermelons. You are learning that things which
were small and despised have come to be great elements in your
commerce. Now your railroads make special provision for the
transportation of a crop which brings large wealth to your people.
I mention this as a good illustration of the changing conditions
into which you are entering. You are realizing the benefits of
home markets for what you produce, and I am sure you will unite
with me in those efforts which we ought to make, not only to fill
our own markets with all that this great Nation of 65,000,000 needs,
but to reach out to other markets and enter into competition with
the world for them. [Cheers.] This we shall do, and with all
this mechanical and commercial development we shall realize
largely that condition of unification of heart and interest to which
those who have spoken for you have so eloquently alluded.
[Cheers.]
And now, wishing that the expectations of all who are interested
in this stirring young city may be realized, that all your industries
may be active and profitable, I add the wish that those gentler and
kindlier agencies of the school and church, of a friendly social life,
may always pervade and abide with you as a community. [Cheers.]
Largedelegations came from Mobile, Selma, Montgomery,
Sheffield, and other points in Alabama, to participate
in the grand ovation tendered President Harrison and his
party at Birmingham on April 16. Gov. Thomas G. Jones
and the following members of his staff welcomed the presidential
party at Henryellen: Adjt.-Gen. Charles B. Jones,
Col. F. L. Pettus, Col. Eugene Stollenwerck, Col. M. P. Le
Grand, Col. W. W. Quarles, Col. B. L. Holt, Lieut. James
B. Erwin, and J. K. Jackson, Secretary to the Governor.
The Governor's party was accompanied by five members
from the Citizens' Committee: Col. E. T. Taliaferro, Rufus
N. Rhodes, J. W. Hughes, R. L. Houston, and C. A. Johnston.
On arrival at Birmingham, in the afternoon, the President
was greeted by an enormous gathering and formally
welcomed by Mayor A. O. Lane at the head of the following
distinguished committee: H. M. Caldwell, Joseph F.
Johnston, B. L. Hibbard, William Youngblood, W. J.
Cameron, J. A. Van Hoose, R. H. Pearson, E. H. Barron,
M. M. Williams, J. O. Wright, James Weatherly, Chappell
Cory, Louis Saks, D. D. Smith, J. P. Mudd, Charles M.
Shelley, Paul Giacopazzi, James A. Going, Joe Frank, T.
H. Spencer, P. G. Bowman, J. M. Martin, G. W. Hewitt,
T. T. Hillman, E. Soloman, F. P. O'Brien, Lewis M. Parsons,
Robert Jemison, John McQueen, Geo. L. Morris, B.
Steiner, Mack Sloss, J. A. Yeates, J. M. Handley, Fergus
W. McCarthy, E. V. Gregory, F. H. Armstrong, Geo. M.
Morrow, Thomas Seddon, E. W. Rucker, W. H. Graves,
Gus Shillinger, M. T. Porter, Edwin C. Campbell, Eugene
F. Enslen, R. L. Thornton, Charles Whelan, W. S. Brown,
John M. Cartin, Wm. M. Bethea, I. R. Hochstadter, John
W. Johnston, Wm. Vaughn, Jas. E. Webb, and Robert
Warnock. George A. Custer Post, G. A. R., commanded
by Ass't Adjt.-Gen. W. J. Pender, escorted the President[311]on the march through the city. The following officers participated:
W. H. Hunter, Department Commander; F. G.
Sheppard, Past Department Commander; William Snyder,
Commander; A. A. Tyler, Senior Vice-Commander;
Henry Asa N. Ballard, Surgeon; Edward Birchenough,
Assistant Quartermaster-General; A. W. Fulghum, Past
Commander; and John Mackenzie, Officer of the Day.
Both the Governor and the Mayor delivered eloquent
addresses of welcome, to which President Harrison responded
as follows:
Governor Jones, Mr. Mayor, and Fellow-citizens—The noise of
your industries will not stay itself, I fear, sufficiently to enable me
to make myself heard by many in this immense throng that has
gathered to welcome us. I judge from what we have seen as we
neared your station that we have here at Birmingham the largest
and most enthusiastic concourse of people that has met us since we
left the national capital. [Great and prolonged cheering.] For
all this I am deeply grateful. The rapidity with which we must
pursue this journey will not allow us to look with any detail into
the great enterprises which cluster about your city; but if we shall
only have opportunity to see for a moment these friendly faces
and listen to these friendly words, we shall carry away that which
will be invaluable, and, I trust, by the friendly exchange of greetings,
may leave something to you that is worth cherishing. [Great
cheering.] I have read of the marvellous development which, in
the last few years, has been stirring the solitude of these southern
mountains, and I remember that not many years after the war,
when I had resumed my law practice at Indianapolis, I was visited
by a gentleman, known, I expect, to all of you, upon some professional
business. He came to pursue a collection claim against a
citizen of Indiana; but he seemed to be more interested in talking
about Birmingham than anything else. [Laughter and cheers.]
That man was Colonel Powell, one of the early promoters of your
city. [Cheers.] I listened to his story of the marvellous wealth
of iron and coal that was stored in this region; of their nearness
to each other, and to the limestone necessary for smelting; to his
calculations as to the cheapness with which iron could be produced
here, and his glowing story of the great city that was to be reared,
with a good deal of incredulity. I thought he was a visionary; but
I have regretted ever since that I did not ask him to pay me my
fee in town lots in Birmingham. [Laughter and cheers.]
My countrymen, we thought the war a great calamity, and so it
was. The destruction of life and of property was sad beyond
expression; and yet we can see now that God led us through that
Red Sea to a development in material prosperity and to a fraternity
that was not otherwise possible. [Cheers.] The industries that
have called to your midst so many toiling men are always and
everywhere the concomitants of freedom. Out of all this freedom
from the incubus of slavery the South has found a new industrial
birth. Once almost wholly agricultural, you are now not the less
fruitful in crops, but you have added all this. [Cheers.] You
have increased your production of cotton, and have added an increase
in ten years of nearly 300 per cent. in the production of
iron. You have produced three-fourths of the cotton crop of the
world, and it has brought you since the war about $8,000,000,000
of money to enrich your people. But as yet you are spinning in
the South only 8 per cent, of it. Why not, with the help we will
give you in New England and the North, spin it all? [Cheers.]
Why not establish here cotton mills that shall send, not the crude
agricultural product to other markets, but the manufactured product?
[Cheers.] Why not, while supplying 65,000,000 of people,
reach out and take a part we have not had in the commerce of the
world? [Cheers.] I believe we are to see now a renaissance in
American prosperity and in the up-building again of our American
merchant marine. [Cheers.] I believe that these Southern
ports that so favorably look out with invitations to the States of
Central and South America shall yet see our fleets carrying the
American flag and the products of Alabama to the markets of South
America. [Great cheering.]
In all this we are united; we may differ as to method, but if
you will permit me I will give an illustration to show how we
have been dealing with this shipping question. I can remember
when no wholesale merchant ever sent a drummer into the field.
He said to his customers, "Come to my store and buy;" but competition
increased and the enterprising merchant started out men
to seek customers; and so his fellow-merchant was put to the
choice to put travelling men into the field or to go out of business.
It seems to me, whatever we may think of the policy of aiding
our steamship lines, that since every other great nation does it, we
must do it or stay out of business, for we have pretty much gone
out. [Cheers.] I am glad to reciprocate with the very fulness of
my heart every fraternal expression that has fallen from the lips of
these gentlemen who have addressed me in your behalf. [Cheers.]
I have not been saved from mistakes; probably I shall not be. I[313]am sure of but one thing—I can declare that I have simply at
heart the glory of the American Nation and the good of all its
people. [Great and prolonged cheering.] I thank these companies
of the State militia, one of whom I recognize as having done me
the honor to attend the inaugural ceremony, for their presence.
They are deserving, sir [to the Governor], of your encouragement
and that of the State of Alabama. They are the reserve army of
the United States. It is our policy not to have a large regular
army, but to have a trained militia that, in any exigency, will
step to the defence of the country; and if that exigency shall ever
arise—which God forbid—I know that you would respond as
quickly and readily as any other State. [Cheers.] [The Governor:
"You will find all Alabama at your back, sir!"] [Continued
cheering.]
I am glad to know that in addition to all this business you are
doing you are also attending to education and to those things that
conduce to social order. The American home is the one thing we
cannot afford to lose out of the American life. [Cheers.] As long
as we have pure homes and God-fearing, order-loving fathers and
mothers to rear the children that are given to them, and to make
these homes the abodes of order, cleanliness, piety, and intelligence,
the American society and the American Union are safe
[Great cheering.]
After the parade the President's party, the Governor
and staff, and the citizens' Reception Committee sat down
to luncheon. On the right of the President was Mrs. Jones,
wife of the Governor; on his left, Mrs. Lane, wife of the
Mayor. Mr. Rufus N. Rhodes proposed the health of the
President of the United States, to which General Harrison
responded briefly, saying:
We have seen something of the marvellous material growth of Birmingham,
and seen evidence of the great richness of your "black
diamonds" and your iron, and now we see something of your home
life. The many beautiful women whom we have had the happiness
to meet, and some of whom are now with us, are the angels of
your homes, and right glad we are to be favored by their presence.
After all, it is their homes which make a people great. We are
glad to be here; for, really, you overwhelm us with kindness.
[Long-continued applause.]
Thepresidential party arrived at Memphis early on
the morning of the 17th and were greeted by 10,000
people. The committee for the reception and entertainment
of President Harrison and his guests comprised the
following prominent citizens: Lucas W. Clapp, president
of the taxing district of Memphis, Chairman; H. M. Neely,
M. Cooper, J. P. Jordan, B. M. Stratton, R. C. Graves, D.
P. Hadden, R. P. Patterson, Wm. M. Randolph, John K.
Speed, John R. Godwin, Sam Tate, Jr., N. W. Speers,
Jr., Josiah Patterson, W. J. Crawford, Martin Kelly, John
Loague, J. M. Keating, J. Harvey Mathes, A. B. Pickett,
W. J. Smith, Emerson Etheridge, T. J. Lathan, A. D.
Gwynne, R. D. Frayser, J. T. Fargason, Samuel W.
Hawkins, T. J. Graham, B. M. Estes, S. R. Montgomery,
W. A. Collier, A. C. Treadwell, F. M. Norfleet, Alfred G.
Tuther, W. D. Beard, S. H. Haines, R. J. Morgan, Louis
Erb, Dr. J. P. Alban, W. A. Gage, J. N. Snowden, John T.
Moss, Thomas F. Tobin, J. S. Robinson, James Ralston,
L. B. Eaton, John W. Dillard, J. M. Semmes, M. T. Williamson,
Andrew J. Harris, R. S. Capers, L. H. Estes, J. J.
DuBose, J. B. Clough, J. E. Bigelow, George Arnold, T.
B. Edgington, Luke E. Wright, D. T. Porter, J. T. Pettit,
Napoleon Hill, E. S. Hammond, Wm. R. Moore, G. C.
Matthews, Colton Greene, Isham G. Harris, J. A. Taylor,
P. M. Winters, Holmes Cummins, E. Lowenstein, J. S.
Menken, A. Vaccaro, N. M. Jones, R. B. Snowden, W. M.
Farrington, Barney Hughes, J. H. Smith, Noland Fontaine,
J. H. Martin, J. C. Neely, Robert Gates, James W.
Brown, G. E. Dunbar, J. W. Falls, S. C. Toof, W. H. Carroll,
S. P. Read, H. G. Harrington, H. F. Dix, J. S. Galloway,
T. W. Brown, H. J. Lynn, J. W. Person, H. B. Cullen,
S. W. Green, P. J. Quigley, T. J. Brogan, M. C.
Gallaway, W. E. McGuire, Ralph Davis, J. J. Williams,
T. A. Hamilton, E. B. McHenry, George B. Peters, John[315]L. Norton, W. H. Bates, M. T. Garvin, S. H. Dunscomb,
F. H. White, and R. D. Jordan.
The following military committee also assisted: Gen.
S. F. Carnes, Chairman; Col. Kellar Anderson, Col. Hugh
Pettit, Maj. J. F. Peters, Col. W. F. Taylor, Col. L. W.
Finley, Gen. A. J. Vaughn, Gen. G. W. Gordon, and Gen.
R. F. Patterson.
Chairman Clapp made the address of welcome. President
Harrison responded as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—The name of the city of Memphis was familiar
to me in my early boyhood. Born and reared upon one of the
tributaries of the great river upon which your city is located,
these river marts of commerce were the familiar trading-posts of
the farmers of the Ohio Valley. I well remember when, on the
shores of father's farm, the old "broad-horn" was loaded from the
hay-press and the corn-crib to market with the plantations along
the Lower Mississippi. I remember to have heard from him and
the neighbors who constituted the crew of those pioneer craft of
river navigation of the perils of these great waters; of the snags
and caving banks of the Lower Mississippi. In those times these
States were largely supplied with grain and forage from the Northwestern
States. Here you were giving your attention to one or
two great staple products, for which you found a large foreign
market. I congratulate you that the progress of events has made
you not less agricultural, but has diversified your agriculture so
that you are not now wholly dependent upon these great staples for
the income of your farms.
The benefits of this diversification are very great and the change
symbolizes more than we at first realize. This change means that
we are now coming to understand that meanness cannot be predicated
of any honest industry. I rejoice that you are adding to
diversified agriculture diversified manufacturing pursuits; that
you are turning your thought to compressing and spinning cotton
as well as raising it. I know no reason why these cotton States,
that produce 75 per cent. of the cotton of the world, should not spin
the greater portion of it. I know no reason why they should
export it as raw material, rather than as a manufactured product,
holding in their midst the profits of this transformation of the raw
material to the finished product. [Applause.]
I hope it may be so. I see evidence that the people are turning
their attention to new industries, and are bringing into the midst[316]of these farming communities a large population of artisans and
laborers to consume at your own doors the product of your farms.
I am glad that a liberal Government is making this great waterway
to the sea safe and capable of an uninterrupted use. I am glad
that it is here making the shores of your own city convenient and
safe, and that it is opening, north and south, an uninterrupted
and cheap transportation for the products of these lands that lie
along this great system of rivers. I am glad that it is bringing
you in contact with ports of the Gulf that look out with near and
inviting aspect toward a great trade in South America that we
shall soon possess. I am glad to believe that these great river
towns will speedily exchange their burdens with American ships
at the mouth of the Mississippi to be transported to foreign ports
under the flag of our country. [Great cheering.]
This Government of ours is a compact of the people to be governed
by a majority, expressing itself by lawful methods. [Cheers.]
Everything in this country is to be brought to the measure of the
law. I propose no other rule, either as an individual or as a public
officer. I cannot in any degree let down this rule [cries of
"No!" and cheers] without violating my official duty. There must
be no other supremacy than that of lawful majorities. We must
all come at last to this conclusion—that the supremacy of the law
is the one supremacy in this country of ours. [Cheers.]
Now, my fellow citizens, I thank you for this warm and magnificent
demonstration of your respect, accepting cordially the
expression of the chief of your city Government that you are a
sincere, earnest, patriotic, devoted people. I beg to leave with
you the suggestion that each in his place shall do what he can to
maintain social order and public peace; that the lines here and
everywhere shall be between the well-disposed and the ill-disposed.
The effort of speech to this immense throng is too great for me.
I beg to assure you that I carry from the great war no sentiment
of ill-will to any. [Cheers.] I am glad that the Confederate
soldier, confessing that defeat which has brought him blessings
that would have been impossible otherwise, has been taken again
into full participation in the administration of the Government;
that no penalties, limitations, or other inflictions rest upon him.
I have taken and can always take the hand of a brave Confederate
soldier with confidence and respect. [Great cheering.]
I would put him under one yoke only, and that is the yoke that
the victors in that struggle bore when they went home and laid off
their uniforms—the yoke of the law and the obligation always to
obey it. [Cheers.] Upon that platform, without distinction be[317]tween
the victors and the vanquished, we enter together upon
possibilities as a people that we cannot overestimate. I believe
the Nation is lifting itself to a new life; that this flag shall float
on unfamiliar seas, and that this coming prosperity will be equally
shared by all our people. [Prolonged cheering.]
Asthe presidential party crossed the Mississippi they
were met on the Arkansas shore by Gov. James P. Eagle
and wife, Judge John A. Williams, Mayor H. L. Fletcher,
James Mitchell, Col. Logan H. Roots, Mrs. Judge Caldwell,
Mrs. C. C. Waters, Mrs. Wm. G. Whipple, Mrs. W.
C. Ratcliffe, Miss Jean Loughborough, and Miss Fannie
Mitchell. Arriving at Little Rock, late in the afternoon,
the President was welcomed by Hon. Josiah H. Shinn, R.
A. Edgerton, Chas. C. Waters, B. D. Caldwell, W. A.
Clark, H. F. Roberts, T. H. Jones, and the other members
of the Committee of Reception. McPherson and Ord
posts, G. A. R., in charge of Marshal O. M. Spellman, Lee
Clough, and C. Altenberg, acted as escort to the President,
accompanied by the McCarthy Light Guards. The parade
was in charge of Grand Marshal Zeb Ward, Jr., assisted
by Col. W. T. Kelley, Horace G. Allis, and Oscar Davis.
The Lincoln Club, commanded by P. Raleigh and P. C.
Dooley, participated in the reception. At the State House
Governor Eagle formally welcomed the distinguished
travellers.
Governor Eagle and Fellow-citizens—No voice is large enough to
compass this immense throng. But my heart is large enough to
receive all the gladness and joy of your great welcome here to-day.
[Applause.] I thank you one and all for your presence, for the
kind words of greeting which have been spoken by your Governor,
and for these kind faces turned to me. In all this I see a great
fraternity; in all this I feel new impulses to a better discharge of
every public and every private duty. I cannot but feel that in[318]consequence of this brief contact with you to-day I shall carry
away a better knowledge of your State, its resources, its capabilities,
and of the generous warm-heartedness of its people. We
have a country whose greatness this meeting evidences, for there
are here assembled masses of independent men. The commonwealth
rests upon the free suffrage of its citizens and their devotion to the
Constitution, and the flag is the bulwark of its life. [Cheers.]
We have agreed, I am sure, that we will do no more fighting
among ourselves. [Cries of "Good! good!" and cheers.] I may
say to you confidentially that Senator Jones and I agreed several
years ago, after observing together the rifle practice at Fort Snelling,
that shooting had been reduced to such accuracy that war
was too dangerous for either of us to engage in it. [Laughter and
cheers.] But, my friends, I cannot prolong this talk. Once already
to-day in the dampness of this atmosphere I have attempted to
speak, and therefore you will allow me to conclude by wishing for
your State, for its Governor and all its public officers, for all its
citizens without exception, high or humble, the blessing of social
order, peace, and prosperity—the fruits of intelligence and piety.
[Great cheering.]
Notwithstandingit was nearly midnight when the
presidential train reached Texarkana, about 2,000 citizens
were present. Foremost in the movement to give a fitting
reception to the President were: George H. Langsdale,
Robert Langsdale, Richard Brunazzi, and Edward Donnelly.
Among other well-known citizens present were
Lyman S. Roach, Commander of Dick Yates Post, G. A.
R.; Ira A. Church, J. A. Mifflin, Wm. Rhinders, W. F.
Loren, W. W. Shaw, Fred A. Church, J. P. Ashcraft,
Wm. H. Bush, A. B. Matson, W. W. De Prato, T. P. McCalla,
J. W. Hatcher, John McKenna, Peter Gable, John
Mayher, Martin Foster, J. K. Langsdale, and F. L.
Schuster.
Having had notice of your request that we stop here for a few
moments, I have remained up in order to thank you for your[319]expressed interest and for this very large and cordial demonstration.
I have spoken several times during the day, and am sure
you will excuse me from attempting now, at midnight, to make a
speech. I hope that prosperity is here and that it may abide with
you. Thanking you again, I bid you good-night.
Thefirst stop in the Lone Star State was at Palestine,
where the President received a royal welcome, the population
of the city turning out to do him honor. His excellency
Gov. James S. Hogg cordially greeted the President
at this point. Hon. John H. Reagan, Hon. Geo. A.
Wright, Mayor of Palestine, and the City Council in a
body, constituted the Committee of Reception, together
with the following prominent residents: Capt. T. T. Gammage,
A. H. Bailey, Geo. E. Dilley, N. R. Royall, W. C.
Kendall, A. Teah, J. R. Hearne, J. W. Ozment, P. W.
Ezell, O. B. Sawyers, G. W. Burkitt, W. M. Lacy, Henry
Ash, A. C. Green, A. R. Howard, A. L. Bowers, D. W.
Heath, Wm. Broyles, John J. Word, E. R. Kersh, R. J.
Wallace, J. M. Fullinwider, Rev. E. F. Fales and Mrs.
Fales, who welcomed her distinguished brother Postmaster-General
Wanamaker.
Governor Hogg made the formal address of welcome, to
which the President responded as follows:
Governor Hogg and Fellow-citizens—It gives me pleasure to come
this fresh morning into this great State—a kingdom without a
king, an empire without an emperor, a State gigantic in proportions
and matchless in resources, with diversified industries and
infinite capacities to sustain a tremendous population and to bring
to every home where industry abides prosperity and comfort. Such
homes, I am sure, are represented here this morning—the American
home, where the father abides in the respect and the mother
in the deep love of the children that sit about the fireside; where
all that makes us good is taught and the first rudiments of obedience
to law, of orderly relations one to another, are put into the
young minds. Out of this comes social order; on this rests the[320]security of our country. The home is the training-school for
American citizenship. There we learn to defer to others; selfishness
is suppressed by the needs of those about us. There self-sacrifice,
love, and willingness to give ourselves for others are born.
I thank you that so many of you have come here this morning
from such homes, and all of us are thankful together that peace
rests upon our whole country. All of us have pledged ourselves
that no sectional strife shall ever divide us, and that while abiding
in peace with all the world we are, against all aggression, one
mighty, united people. [Cheers.]
I desire to assure you, my countrymen, that in my heart I make
no distinction between our people anywhere. [Cheers.] I have a
deep desire that everywhere in all our States there shall be that
profound respect for the will of the majority, expressed by our
voters, that shall bring constant peace into all our communities.
It is very kind of you to come here this morning before breakfast.
Perhaps you are initiating me into the Texas habit—is it so?—of
taking something before breakfast. [Laughter and cheers.] This
exhilarating draught of good-will you have given me this morning
will not, I am sure, disturb either my digestion or comfort
during this day. [Cheers.]
Thepresidential party reached Houston at noon on
April 18 and were greeted by an enthusiastic assemblage
estimated at 20,000. The welcoming committee, headed
by Mayor Scherffius, comprised the following-named prominent
citizens: Hon. Charles Stewart, Geo. A. Race, J.
W. Temby, Maj. R. B. Baer, A. K. Taylor, Col. John T.
Brady, W. D. Cleveland, D. C. Smith, C. Lombardi, Dr.
E. F. Schmidt, Capt. J. C. Hutcheson, T. W. House, S. K.
Dick, W. B. Chew, James F. Dumble, R. B. Morris, James
A. Patton, Jr., A. P. Root, W. V. R. Watson, G. W. Kidd,
G. C. Felton, H. W. Garrow, Geo. E. Dickey, F. Halff,
John F. Dickson, E. W. Cave, Charles Dillingham, A. C.
Herndon, J. W. Jones, D. M. Angle, Geo. L. Porter, Rufus
Cage, F. A. Rice, Dr. D. F. Stuart, and President Mitchell,
of the Commercial Club. Many prominent ladies of the[321]city participated in receiving and entertaining the ladies
in the presidential party.
Congressman Stewart introduced the President, who
spoke as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—Your faces all respond to the words of welcome
which have been spoken in your behalf. We have been not
only pleased but touched by the delicate and kindly expressions of
regard which we have received since entering the State of Texas.
I remained up last night until after midnight that I might not
unconsciously pass into this great State, and I was called very early
from my bed this morning to receive a draught of welcome, before
I had breakfasted, from another Texas audience. You have a
State whose greatness I think you have discovered.
A stranger can hardly hope to point out to you that which you
have not already known. Perhaps Virginia and Kentucky have
been heard to say more about their respective States than Texas;
but I think their voices are likely soon to be drowned by the enthusiastic
and affectionate claims which you will present to the
country for your great commonwealth. [Cheers.] You have the
resources in some measure—in a great measure—of all the States
gathered within your borders; a soil adapted to the production of
all the cereals and grasses; and to this you add cotton, sugar, and
tobacco. You are very rightly diversifying your crops, because
the history of intelligent farming shows that as the crops are
diversified the people prosper.
All is not staked upon the success of a single crop. You do well,
therefore, to raise cotton, sugar, and tobacco, and I am glad you
are not neglecting cattle, sheep, hogs, corn, and all the cereals.
We have been trying to do what we could from Washington to
make for you a larger and better market for your enormous meat
products. [Cheers.] We have felt that the restrictions imposed
by some of the European governments could not be fairly justified
upon the ground stated by them. Already the Secretary of Agriculture—himself
a farmer, who has with his own hands wrought
in all the work of the farm—has succeeded in procuring the removal
of some of these injurious restrictions, and has announced
to the country that exportation of cattle has increased 100 per cent.
in the last year. [Cheers.] I beg to assure you that these interests
will have the most careful attention from the Government at
Washington and from our representatives at foreign courts. It is
believed that we have now by legislation a system of sanitary
inspection of our meat products that, when once put in operation[322]and examined by the European governments, will remove the last
excuse for the exclusion of our meats from those foreign states.
Our time is so limited that I can scarcely say more than "thank
you." We cannot at all repay you for this demonstration of welcome,
but let me say that in all your prosperity I shall rejoice. I do
desire that all our legislation and all our institutions and the combined
energies of all our people shall work together for the common
good of all our States and all our population. [Great cheering.]
You have great resources of a material sort, and yet above all this
I rejoice that the timely forethought of your public men has provided
an unexampled school fund for the education of the children.
These things that partake of the life that is spiritual are better
after all than the material. Indeed, there can be no true prosperity
in any State or community where they are not thoughtfully fostered.
Good social order, respect for the law, regard for other
men's rights, orderly, peaceful administration are the essential
things in any community. [Cheers.]
ThePresident and his party, accompanied by Governor
Hogg, arrived at Galveston on the afternoon of Saturday,
April 18, and were tendered an ovation by the hospitable
residents of the Island City. The distinguished travellers
were met at Houston by a committee of escort consisting of
Chairman Leo N. Levi, George Sealy, Julius Runge, R.
B. Hawley, W. F. Ladd, Col. R. G. Lowe, Maj. C. J. Allen,
Aldermen C. M. Mason and T. W. Jackson, D. D. Bryan,
J. W. Burson, Mrs. R. L. Fulton, Mrs. R. B. Hawley, Mrs.
Aaron Blum, Mrs. W. F. Ladd, and Mrs. C. J. Allen.
On arriving in the city the President was welcomed by
the other members of the Reception Committee, headed by
Mayor Roger L. Fulton, the Board of Aldermen, and the
following prominent citizens: Leon Blum, R. S. Willis,
J. C. League, H. A. Landes, J. E. Wallis, Col. J. S. Rogers,
P. J. Willis, Robert Bornefeld, C. C. Sweeney, M. F. Mott,
Albert Weis, M. Lasker, J. Z. Miller, Fen Cannon, Col.
John D. Rogers, J. N. Sawyer, W. H. Sinclair, Joseph
Cuney, Geo. Seeligson, Julius Weber, J. D. Skinner, Thos.[323]H. Sweeney, James Montgomery, F. L. Dana, James
Moore, W. F. Beers, J. H. Hutchings, Wm. H. Masters, M.
W. Shaw, W. B. Denson, H. B. Cullum, C. H. Rickert, W.
B. Lockhart, U. Muller, F. Lammers, H. F. Sproule, Judge
C. L. Cleveland, Judge Wm. H. Stewart, R. T. Wheeler,
N. W. Cuney, Thomas W. Cain, Samuel Penland, R. G.
Street, J. Lobit, D. M. Erlich, C. M. Trueheart, L. Fellman,
C. R. Reifel, Charles Vidor, George Butler, W. Vowrinckle,
Joe Owens, C. E. Angel, Rev. S. M. Bird, Dr. A. W.
Fly, Dr. J. T. Y. Paine, Dr. H. P. Cooke, J. R. Gibson,
Howard Carnes, Charles Maddox, Bishop Gallagher, Rev.
A. T. Spaulding, A. B. Tuller, Dr. J. D. Daviss, Rev. J. E.
Edwards, A. B. Homer, Rev. Joseph B. Sears, J. Singer, R.
C. Johnson, J. W. Riddell, B. Tiernan, T. A. Gary, John
Focke, Joseph Scott, W. E. McDonald, Geo. Schneider, F.
O. Becker, Thomas Goggan, J. D. Sherwood, O. H. Cooper,
E. O'C. MacInerney, Thos. S. King, Robert Day, Daniel
Buckley, J. J. Hanna, F. W. Fickett, Wm. Selkirk, and J.
A. Robertson.
Immediately following their arrival the presidential
party, escorted by Hon. Wm. H. Crain, Mr. Leon Blum,
and other members of the Reception Committee, enjoyed
a trip about the harbor aboard one of the Mallory line
steamships, enabling them to view the extensive Government
works for deepening the channel at the entrance to
the harbor. This excursion was followed by a ride across
the island amid a shower of flowers.
The parade was participated in by all the military and
industrial organizations of the city; also by the Odd Fellows,
Knights of Pythias, and other orders, and was a most
imposing demonstration. The G. A. R. veterans acted as
a guard of honor to the President on the march, and the
day was just closing when the column arrived at the
Beach Hotel, on the very shore of the Gulf of Mexico,
where the formal address of welcome was ably delivered
by Gen. T. N. Waul.
President Harrison's response was the longest speech of
his trip, and attracted wide-spread and favorable comment.
He said:
My Fellow-citizens—We close to-night a whole week of travel,
a whole week of hand-shaking, a whole week of talking. I have
before me 10,000 miles of hand-shaking and speaking, and I am
not, by reason of what this week has brought me, in voice to contend
with the fine but rather strong Gulf breeze which pours in
upon us to-night; and yet it comes to me laden with the fragrance
of your welcome. [Cheers.] It comes with the softness, refreshment,
and grace which have accompanied all my intercourse with
the people of Texas. [Great cheering.]
The magnificent and cordial demonstration which you have made
in our honor to-day will always remain a bright and pleasant
picture in my memory. [Great cheers.] I am glad to have been
able to rest my eyes upon the city of Galveston. I am glad to
have been able to traverse this harbor and to look upon that work
which a liberal and united Government has inaugurated for your
benefit and for the benefit of the Northwest. [Great and prolonged
cheers.] I have always believed that it was one of the undisputed
functions of the general Government to make these great waterways
which penetrate our country and these harbors into which
our shipping must come to receive the tribute of rail and river
safe and easy of access.
This ministering care should extend to our whole country, and I
am glad that, adopting a policy with reference to the harbor work,
here at least, which I insisted upon in a public message [great
and prolonged cheering], the appropriation has been made adequate
to a diligent and prompt completion of the work. [Great cheering.]
In the past the Government has undertaken too many things
at once, and its annual appropriations have been so inadequate
that the work of the engineers was much retarded and often seriously
damaged in the interval of waiting for fresh appropriations.
It is a better policy, when a work has once been determined to
be of national significance, that the appropriation should be
sufficient to bring it speedily and without loss to a conclusion.
[Great cheering.] I am glad that the scheme of the engineer for
giving deep water to Galveston is thus to be prosecuted.
I have said some of our South Atlantic and Gulf ports occupy
a most favorable position for the new commerce toward which we
are reaching out our hands, and which is reaching out its hands
to us. [Great cheering.] I am an economist in the sense that I[325]would not waste one dollar of public money, but I am not an
economist in the sense that I would leave incomplete or suffer to
lag any great work highly promotive of the true interests of our
people. [Great cheering.]
We are great enough and rich enough to reach forward to grander
conceptions than have entered the minds of some of our statesmen
in the past. If you are content, I am not, that the nations of
Europe shall absorb nearly the entire commerce of these near sister
republics that lie south of us. It is naturally in large measure
ours—ours by neighborhood, ours by nearness of access, ours by
that sympathy that binds a hemisphere without a king. [Cheers.]
The inauguration of the Three Americas Congress, or more properly
the American Conference, the happy conduct of that meeting,
the wise and comprehensive measures which were suggested by it,
with the fraternal and kindly spirit that was manifested by our
southern neighbors, has stimulated a desire in them and in our
people for a larger intercourse of commerce and of friendship. The
provisions of the bill passed at the last session looking to a reciprocity
of trade not only met with my official approval when I
signed the bill, but with my zealous promotion before the bill was
reported. [Great and prolonged cheering.]
Its provision concerning reciprocity is that we have placed upon
our free list sugar, tea, coffee and hides, and have said to those nations
from whom we receive these great staples: Give us free access to
your ports for an equivalent amount of our produce in exchange,
or we will reimpose duties upon the articles named. The law
leaves it wholly to the Executive to negotiate these arrangements.
It does not need that they shall take the form of a treaty.
They need not be submitted for the concurrence of the Senate.
It only needs that we, having made our offer, shall receive their
offer in return; and when they shall have made up an acceptable
schedule of articles produced by us that shall have free access to
their ports, a proclamation by the President closes the whole business.
[Cheers.] Already one treaty with that youngest of the
South American republics, the great republic of Brazil, has been
negotiated and proclaimed. I think, without disclosing an Executive
secret, I may tell you that the arrangement with Brazil is
not likely to abide in lonesomeness much longer [great and prolonged
cheering]; that others are to follow, and that as a result of
these trade arrangements the products of the United States—our
meats, our breadstuffs, and certain lines of manufactured goods—are
to find free or favored access to the ports of many of these
South and Central American States. All the States will share in[326]these benefits. We have had some analysis of the manifests of
some of our steamers now sailing to South American ports, and in
a single steamer it was found that twenty-five States contributed to
the cargo.
But we shall need something more. We shall need American
steamships to carry American goods to these ports. [Great cheering.]
The last Congress passed a bill appropriating about $1,500,000,
and authorized the Postmaster-General to contract with steamship
companies for a period not exceeding ten years for the carrying of
the United States mail. The foreign mail service is the only mail
service out of which the Government has been making a net profit.
We do not make a profit out of our land service.
There is an annual deficiency which my good friend the Postmaster-General
has been trying very hard to reduce or wipe out.
The theory of our mail service is that it is for the people, that we
are not to make a profit out of it, that we are to give them as
cheap postage as is possible. We are, many of us, looking forward
to a time when we shall have one-cent postage in this country.
[Cheers.] We have been so close and penurious in dealing with
our ships in the carrying of foreign mails that we have actually
made revenues out of that business, not having spent for it what
we have received from it. Now we propose to change that policy
and to make more liberal contracts with American lines carrying
American mail. [Cheers.]
Some one may say we ought not to go into this business, that it
is subsidy. But, my friend, every other great nation of the world
has been doing it and is doing it to-day. Great Britain and France
have built up their great steamship lines by Government aid, and
it seems to me our attitude with reference to that is aptly portrayed
by an illustration I mentioned the other day. In olden times no
wholesale merchant sent out travelling men to solicit custom,
but he stood in his own store and waited for his customers.
But presently some enterprising merchant began to send out men
with their samples to seek the trade, to save the country buyer the
cost of the trip to New York or Philadelphia, until finally that
practice has become universal, and these active, intelligent travelling
men are scurrying this country over, pushing and soliciting
in their several lines of business. Now imagine some conservative
merchant in New York saying to himself: "All this is wrong; the
trade ought to come to me." If he should refuse to adopt these
modern methods what would be the result? He must adopt the
new methods or go out of business. We have been refusing to
adopt the universal method of our competitors in commerce to[327]stimulate their shipping interest and have gone out of the business.
[Laughter and cheers.] Encouraged by what your spokesman has
said to-night, I venture to declare that I am in favor of going into
business again, and when it is re-established I hope Galveston will
be in the partnership. [Great cheers.]
It has been the careful study of the Postmaster-General in preparing
to execute the law to which I have referred to see how
much increase in routes and ships we could secure by it. We have
said to the few existing American lines: You must not treat this
appropriation as a plate of soup, to be divided and consumed.
You must give us new lines, new ships, increased trips, and new
ports of call. Already the steamship lines are looking over the
routes to see what they can do, with a view of increasing their
tonnage and establishing new lines.
The Postmaster-General has invited the attention and suggestion
of all the boards of trade of all our seaboard cities. Undoubtedly
you have received such a letter. This appropriation is for one
year; what the future is to be must depend upon the deliberate
judgment of the people. If during my term of office they shall
strike down a law that I believe to be beneficial or destroy its
energy by withholding appropriations, I shall bow to their will,
but I shall feel great disappointment if we do not make an era for
the revival of American commerce. I do much want that the time
shall come when our citizens living in temporary exile in foreign
ports shall now and then see steaming into these distant ports a
fine modern man-of-war, flying the United States flag [cheers],
with the best modern guns on her deck, and a brave American
crew in her forecastle. [Cheers.] I want, also, that in these ports,
so long unfamiliar with the American flag, there shall again be
found our steamships and our sailing vessels flying the flag that we
all love, and carrying from our shores the products that these men
of toil have brought to them to exchange for the products of other
climes.
I think we should add to all this, and happily it is likely to be
accomplished by individual efforts, the early completion of the
Nicaragua Canal. [Cheers.] The Pacific coast should no longer
be found by sea only by the passage of the Horn. The short route
should be opened, and it will be, and then with this wondrous
stirring among the people of all our States, this awakening to new
business plans and more careful and economical work, there will
come great prosperity to all our people. Texas will spin more of
the cotton that she raises.
The great States of the South will be in discontent with the old[328]condition that made them simply agricultural States, and will
rouse themselves to compete with the older manufacturing States
of the North and East. [Cheers.] The vision I have, all the
thoughts I have of this matter embrace all the States and all my
countrymen. I do not think of it as a question of party; I think
of it as a great American question. [Cheers.] By the invitation
of the address which was made to me I have freely spoken my
mind to you on these topics. I hope I have done so with no offence
or impropriety. [Cries of "No, no!" and cheers.]
I would not on an occasion so full of general good feeling as this
obtrude anything that should induce division or dissent. For all
who do dissent I have the most respectful tolerance. The views I
hold are the result of some thought and investigation, and as they
are questions of public concern I confidently submit them to the
arbitrament of brave and enlightened American suffrage. [Applause
and cheers.]
ThePresident and his party passed their first Sunday
at Galveston, leaving the Island City at midnight and arriving
at San Antonio at 11:15 Monday morning. A
special committee, consisting of Hon. C. W. Ogden, Chairman;
Col. C. M. Terrell, S. M. Johnson, J. S. McNamara,
Mrs. Ogden, Mrs. Johnson, and Miss Eleanor Sullivan,
escorted the party from Galveston. TheAlamo Citywas
profusely decorated in honor of the visit, and a great throng
greeted the President's arrival. He was received by the
Hon. Bryan Callaghan, Mayor of the city, at the head of
the following committee of leading citizens: Gen. David
S. Stanley, U. S. A.; Col. J. P. Martin, Col. W. B. Wright,
Col. H. B. Andrews, Maj. C. C. Cresson, Hon. W. W.
King, L. M. Gregory, B. F. Yoakum, C. W. Ogden, H. D.
Kampmann, J. S. Alexander, W. J. B. Patterson, A. W.
Houston, Reagan Houston, Richard Wooley, Jr., R. H.
Russell, N. Mackey, George Dullnig, J. V. Dignowity, J.
S. Thornton, F. Groos, H. P. Drought, D. Sullivan, Charles
Hugo, Rev. Dr. Giddings, C. K. Breneman, W. H. Weiss,[329]Frank Grice, Alex. Joske, Henry Elmendorf, Robert Driscoll,
Paul Wagner, J. Ronse, J. E. Pancoast, Adolph
Wagner, George H. Kalteyer, Charles J. Langholz, C. B.
Mullaly, R. H. McCracken, A. G. Cooper, Dr. G. Graham
Watts, Dr. J. P. Ornealus, Dr. Amos Graves, and A. T.
Wilson. Mayor McDonald, of Austin, and Hon. L. L.
Foster also participated in the reception.
A rainstorm interfered with the parade, and the public
reception was held at the Opera House, thousands being
unable to enter. Mayor Callaghan made the welcoming
address and introduced President Harrison, who spoke as
follows:
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—I very much regret that frequent
speaking in the open air during the past week and the very heavy
atmosphere which we have this morning have somewhat impaired
my voice. I am sure you will crown your hospitality and kindness
by allowing me to speak to you very briefly. I sympathize with
you in the distress which you feel that the day is so unpropitious
for any street demonstration, but I have been told by one wise in
such matters that this rain is worth $5,000,000 to Western Texas.
That being the case, it greatly moderates our regret. It has come
to be a popular habit of attributing to the President whatever
weather may happen on any demonstration in which he takes a
part. I suppose I may claim credit this morning for this beneficial
rain. [Applause.] I generously assure you that if it is worth as
much money as my friend has estimated I shall not take more than
half that sum. [Laughter.] In visiting for a little while this
historic city, I had anticipated great pleasure in looking upon the
remains of an earlier occupancy of this territory in which you
now dwell. Our glance this morning must be brief and imperfect,
but the history has been written and the traditions of these martyrdoms
which occurred here for liberty are fresh in your minds
and are still an inspiring story to be repeated to your children.
I remember in my early boyhood to have heard in our family
thrilling descriptions of the experiences of an uncle, whose name
I bear, in some of those campaigns for freedom in Texas in which
he took a part, so that the story to me goes back to those dim early
recollections of childhood. I am glad to stand where those recollections
are revived and freshened, for they were events of momentous
importance to this country, to this State, and to the whole[330]Union. I rejoice that you have here so great a commonwealth.
The stipulations under which Texas came into the Union of the
States, and which provided that that great Territory might be
subdivided into five States, seem not to attract much attention in
Texas now.
Indeed, as far as I can judge, no man would be able successfully
to appeal to the suffrages of any hamlet in Texas upon the issue
that the State should be divided at all. [Cheers.] The great
industrial capacities which you have, the beneficent climate that
spreads over much of your vast territory, the great variety of productions
which your soil and climate render possible, give a
promise for the future of a prominence among the great States of
the Union that seems to me can scarcely fail to bring Texas to the
front rank. [Cheers.] You are only now beginning to plough this
vast stretch of land. You are only now beginning to diversify
those interests, to emancipate yourselves by producing at home in
your fields all of those products which are necessary to comfortable
existence.
I hope you will soon add, indeed, you are now largely adding,
to this diversity of agricultural pursuits a diversity of mechanical
pursuits. The advantages which you have to transmute the great
production of the field into the manufactured product are very
great. There can be certainly no reason why a very large part of
the million bales of cotton which you produce should not be spun
in Texas. [Cheers.] I hope your people will more and more turn
their thoughts to this matter, for just in proportion as a community
or State suitably divides its energies among various industries, so
does it retain the wealth it produces and increase its population.
[Applause.]
A great Englishman, visiting this country some time ago, in
speaking of the impressions which were made upon his mind, said
he was constantly asked as he travelled through the country whether
he was not amazed at its territorial extent. He said while this,
of course, was a notable incident of travel, he wondered that we
did not forget all our bigness of territory in a contemplation of the
great spectacle we presented as a free people in organized and
peaceful community. He regarded this side of our country and
her institutions as much more important than its material development
or its territorial extent, and he was right in that judgment.
My fellow-citizens, the pride of America, that which should
attract the admiration and has attracted the imagination of many
people upon the face of the earth, is our system of government.
[Applause.] I am glad to know, and to have expressed my satis[331]faction
before, that here in this State of Texas you are giving
attention to education; that you have been able to erect a school
fund, the interest upon which promises a most magnificent endowment
for your common schools. These schools are the pride and
safety of your State. They gather into them upon a common level
with us, and I hope with you, the children of the rich and poor.
In the State in which I dwell everybody's children attend the
common schools.
This lesson of equality, the perfect system which has been developed
by this method of instruction, is training a valued class of
citizens to take up the responsibilities of government when we
shall lay them down. [Applause.] I hope every one of your communities,
even your scattered rural communities, will pursue this
good work. I am sure this hope is shared by my honored host,
Governor Hogg, who sits beside me [applause], and who, in the
discharge of his public duties, can influence the progress of this
great measure. No material greatness, no wealth, no accumulation
of splendor, is to be compared with those humble and homely
virtues which have generally characterized our American homes.
The safety of the State, the good order of the community—all
that is good—the capacity, indeed, to produce material wealth, is
dependent upon intelligence and social order. [Applause.] Wealth
and commerce are timid creatures; they must be assured that the
nest will be safe before they build. So it is always in those communities
where the most perfect order is maintained, where intelligence
is protected, where the Church of God and the institutions
of religion are revered and respected, that we find the largest
development in material wealth. [Applause.]
Thanking you for your cordial greeting, thanking all your people,
and especially the Governor of your State, for courtesies which
have been unfailing, for a cordiality and friendliness that has not
found any stint or repression in the fact that we are of different
political opinions [great cheering], I beg to thank you for this
special manifestation of respect, and to ask you to excuse me from
further speech. I shall follow such arrangements as your committee
have made, and shall be glad if in those arrangements there is
some provision by which I may meet as many of you as possible
individually. [Prolonged cheering.]
Thechief incident of the long run from San Antonio to
El Paso was the enthusiastic reception tendered the President
by the residents of the thriving frontier town of Del
Rio, county seat of Val Verde County. The town was
handsomely decorated, and the following Reception Committee
welcomed the President and party: Judge W. K.
Jones, C. S. Brodbent, Zeno Fielder, J. A. Price, H. D.
Bonnett, E. L. Dignowity, Paul Flato, Clyde Woods,
Thomas Cunningham, W. C. Easterling, J. C. Clarkson,
E. G. Nicholson, C. G. Leighton, and R. J. Felder.
Rev. Dr. H. S. Thrall, the veteran historian of Texas,
delivered the address of welcome. The President, responding,
said:
My Friends—I had supposed when we left San Antonio that we
were not to be stopped very often between that point and El Paso
with such assemblages of our fellow-citizens. We had settled down
to an easy way of living on the train, and I had supposed that
speech-making would not be taken up until to-morrow. I thank
you most cordially for this friendly evidence of your interest, and
I assure you that all of these matters to which your spokesman has
alluded are having the most careful consideration of the authorities
at Washington. The Secretary of Agriculture, who is with me on
the train, has been diligent in an effort to open European markets
for American meats, and he has succeeded so far that our exportation
has very largely increased in the last year. It is our hope
that these restrictions may still further be removed, and that
American meat products may have a still larger market in Europe
than they have had for very many years past. The inspections
now provided by law certainly must remove every reasonable objection
to the use of American meats; for we shall demonstrate to
them that they are perfectly wholesome and pure. I want to say,
from the time of my induction into office until this hour I have
had before me constantly the need of the American farmer of a
larger market for his products. [Cries of "Good! good!" and
cheers.] Whatever we can do to accomplish that will be done.
I want to thank the public-school children for this address which
they have placed in my hands. What a blessed thing it is that
the public school system is found with the pioneer! It follows the[333]buffalo very closely. I am glad to find that your children are being
trained in intelligence and in those moral restraints which shall
make them good citizens. I thank you for your kindly presence.
Theenterprising city of El Paso was reached at 10
o'clock Tuesday morning, and the President was tendered
a veritable ovation. The reception at this point partook of
an international aspect. President Diaz of Mexico was
represented in the person of Governor Carrillo, Chief Executive
of the State of Chihuahua, accompanied by a brilliant
staff of 20 officers. The War Department of the
Mexican Government was represented by Gen. José Maria
Ranjel, Chief of the Second Military Zone, accompanied
by his staff, a company of artillery, and the Eleventh Battalion
Band of 45 instruments. From the City of Mexico
came Col. Ricardo Villanueva and Col. Ygnacio J. Monroy,
representing the Federal Government, while the neighboring
city of Juarez was represented by Colonel Ross, commander
of the garrison, Señor Mejia, Señor Urtetiga, and
many other prominent citizens. The city of El Paso was
represented by Mayor Richard Caples and the members of
the City Council. The Citizens' Committee of Reception
comprised W. S. Hills, Chairman; E. B. Bronson, M. B.
Davis, S. W. Russell, W. F. Payne, Frank P. Clark, C. F.
Slack, Geo. L. Stewart, H. S. Beattie, Judge Allen Blacker,
A. Solomon, W. B. Merrick, A. Berla, Louis Papin, Geo.
E. Bovee, James A. Smith, Hon. S. W. T. Lanham, A. J.
Eaton, Z. T. White, W. S. McCutcheon, A. M. Loomis, H.
C. Myles, Ben Schuster, A. J. Sampson, D. W. Reckhart,
and J. F. Satterthwaite.
Governor Carrillo stood beside President Harrison during
the reception. After the distinguished Mexicans had
paid their respects and greeted our Chief Magistrate, Gen.
A. G. Malloy, on behalf of the citizens of El Paso, in an[334]eloquent address welcomed him to the Gate City of the
two republics.
My Fellow-citizens—I have been journeying for several days
throughout the great State of Texas. We are now about to leave
her territory and receive from you this parting salutation. Our
entrance into the State was with every demonstration of respect
and enthusiasm. This is a fitting close to the magnificent expression
which the people of this State have given to us. I am glad
to stand at this gateway of trade with the great republic of Mexico.
[Cries of "Hear! hear!" and cheers.] I am glad to know
that it is not only a gateway of commerce, but a gateway of
friendship [cheers]; that not only do these hurrying vehicles of
commerce bear the products of the fields and mines in mutual
exchange, but that they have facilitated those personal relations
which have promoted and must yet more promote the friendliness
of two independent liberty-loving peoples. [Cheers.]
I receive with great satisfaction these tributes of respect which
have been brought to me by the Governor of Chihuahua and the
representatives of the army of Mexico. [Cheers.] I desire to
return to them and through them to the people of Mexico and to
that illustrious and progressive statesman who presides over her
destinies [cheers] not only my sincere personal regard, but an
assurance of the friendliness and respect of the American Government
and the American people. I look forward with interest to a
larger development of our trade; to the opening of new lines of
commerce and new avenues of friendship. We have passed that
era in our history, I hope, when we were aggressive and unpleasant
neighbors. We do not covet the territory of any other people
[cheers], but do covet their friendship and those trade exchanges
which are mutually profitable. [Cheers.]
And now to you, my fellow-citizens, I bring congratulations for
the rapid development which you are making here, and extend the
most cordial good wishes for the realization of every hope you
have for El Paso and its neighborhood. [Cheers.] All republics
are builded on the respect and confidence of the people. They are
enduring and stable as their institutions and their rulers continue
to preserve their respect. I rejoice that those influences that tend
to soften the asperities of human life—the home, the school, and
the church—have kept pace with the enterprises of commerce and
are established here among you. All commerce and trade rest
upon the foundation of social order. You cannot attract an in[335]creased
citizenship except as you give to the world a reputation
for social order [cheers], in which crime is suppressed, in which
the rights of the humble are respected [cheers], and where the
courts stand as the safe bulwark of the personal and public rights
of every citizen, however poor. [Cheers.] I trust that as your
city grows you will see that these foundations are carefully and
broadly laid, and then you may hope that the superstructure, magnificent
in its dimensions, perfect in its security and grace, shall
rise in your midst. [Cheers.]
I am glad to meet my comrades of the Grand Army of the
Republic [cheers], the survivors of the grand struggle for the
Union. It was one of the few wars in history that brought blessings
to the "victors and vanquished," and was followed by no
proscriptions, no block, no executions, but by the reception of
those who had striven for the destruction of the country into
friendly citizenship, laying upon them no yoke that was not borne
by the veterans—that of obedience to the law and a due respect for
the rights of others. [Cheers.]
Again, sir [to the Mexican representative], I thank you for the
friendly greeting you have brought from across this narrow river
that separates us, and to you my fellow-countrymen, I extend my
thanks and bid you good-by. [Prolonged cheers.]
Asthe train crossed the Rio Grande and entered New
Mexico Hon. L. Bradford Prince, Governor of that Territory,
gave the Chief Magistrate a cordial welcome. Deming
was reached at 2 o'clock. The city was in holiday attire;
a battery of artillery thundered the presidential salute,
two companies of the Tenth Cavalry, under Captain Keyes,
came to a present as the President appeared, and the
Twenty-fourth Infantry Band burst forth in patriotic
strains. The Committee of Reception comprised the following
prominent citizens: Judge Boone, C. H. Dane, B. A.
Knowles, J. R. Meyers, A. J. Clark, J. P. Bryon, W. H.
Hudson, S. M. Ashenfelter, Gustav Wormser, Ed. Pennington,
W. Burg, James Martin, Colonel Fitzerell, James
A. Lockhart, Seaman Field, John Corbett, E. G. Ross, and[336]Robert Campbell. Professor Hayes delivered the welcoming
address.
My Fellow-citizens—It gives me great pleasure to tarry for a
moment here and to receive out on these broad and sandy plains
the same evidence of friendliness that has greeted me in the States.
I feel great interest in your people, and thinking that you have
labored under a disadvantage by reason of the unsettled state of
your land titles—because no country can settle up and become
populous while the titles to its land remain insecure—it was my
pleasure to urge upon Congress, both in a general and special message,
the establishment of a special land court to settle this question
once for all. [Cheers.]
I am glad that the statute is now a law, and immediately upon
my return from this trip I expect to announce the judges of
that court, and to set them immediately to work upon these cases,
so that you shall certainly, within two years, have all these questions
settled. I hope you will then see an increase of population
that has not as yet been possible, and which will tend to develop
your great mineral resources and open up your lands to settlement.
Thanking you, on behalf of our party, for this pleasant greeting, I
bid you good-by. [Cheers.]
AtLordsburg, New Mexico, the train made a brief stop.
A number of citizens, headed by Don. H. Kedzee, welcomed
the President and presented him a handsome silver
box, manufactured from metal mined in the vicinity. On
the case was inscribed, "Protect the chief industry of our
Territories. Give us free coinage of silver." In accepting
the memento the President said: "Mr. Kedzee and gentlemen,
I thank you for this cordial welcome and for this elegant
souvenir, and assure you due care will be taken of
your interests." [Cheers.]
Tucson, the metropolis of Arizona, was brilliantly
illuminated in honor of the visitors, who were welcomed
by 5,000 citizens and a band of Papago Indians. Negley
Post, G. A. R., J. J. Hill, Commander, represented the veterans.
The city government was present in the persons of
Mayor Frederick Maish and Councilmen M. G. Sameniego,
M. Lamont, Geo. Lesure, Wm. Reid, Frank Miltenberg,
and Julius Goldbaum. The Committee of Reception on
the part of the citizens comprised many of the most distinguished
men of the Territory as well as of the city,
among whom were: Federal Judges R. E. Sloan and H.
C. Gooding, Gen. R. A. Johnson, Gen. R. H. Paul, Charles
R. Drake, Herbert Brown, Brewster Cameron, J. Knox
Corbett, George Christ, J. S. McGee, S. Ainsa, Samuel
Hughes, Juan Elias, Rev. Howard Billman, Albert Steinfeld,
H. S. Stevens, M. P. Freeman, S. M. Franklin, W. C.
Davis, W. M. Lovell, J. S. Noble, H. B. Tenny, F. H. Hereford,
D. C. Driscoll, J. C. Handy, J. A. Black, Thomas
Hughes, A. J. Keen, J. M. Ormsby, H. E. Lacy, G. B.
Henry, Frank Allison, George Pusch, H. W. Fenner, R. D.
Furguson, F. J. Henry, and C. C. Eyster.
Hon. Thos. F. Wilson made the address of welcome.
The President said:
My Fellow-citizens—It is surprising as well as gratifying to see
so many friends assembled to greet us on our arrival at Tucson to-night.
I beg to assure you that the interests of the Territories are
very close to my heart. By reason of my service as Chairman of
the Territory Committee in the United States Senate I was brought
to study very closely the needs of the Territories. I have had
great pleasure issuing the proclamations admitting five Territories
to the sisterhood of States since I became President. I realize the
condition of the people of the Territory without having representation
in Congress as one of disadvantage, and I am friendly to the
suggestion that these Territories, as they have sufficient population
to sustain a State Government and to secure suitable administration
of the own affairs, shall be received into the Union.[338][Cheers.] It will be gratifying to me if you shall come into that
condition during the time that I occupy the presidential chair.
[Cheers.] I thank you again for your cordial demonstration, and
beg to present to you that gentleman of the Cabinet who has charge
of the postal affairs, Mr. Wanamaker. [Prolonged cheers.]
Themorning of the 22d brought the President and his
party out of the great desert to the borders of California,
where at Indio, the first station, they were enthusiastically
greeted by the Governor of the State, Hon. Henry
H. Markham, at the head of the following distinguished
committee: Senator Charles N. Felton, ex-Gov. Geo. C.
Perkins, Col. Charles F. Crocker, Hon. R. F. Del Valle,
Hon. Stephen M. White, Gen. E. P. Johnson, Hon.
Hervey Lindley, Hon. Freeman G. Teed, Hon. Irwin C.
Stump, Hon. Frank McCoppin, and Adjutant-General
Allen. From the districts adjacent to Indio were gathered
several hundred people to greet the Chief Magistrate,
mostly Indians. Postmaster A. G. Tingman introduced
the venerable Chief Cabazon, head of the Cohuilla tribe
and over 100 years old, who presented a petition to the
President asking that the lands guaranteed his people by
the treaty with Mexico be restored to them. Governor
Markham delivered a cordial welcoming address, wherein
he reviewed the wonderful growth of California.
The President, in reply, said he would not undertake,
while almost choked with the dust of the plains he had just
left, to say all that he hoped to say in the way of pleasant
greetings to the citizens of California. Some time, when
he had been refreshed by their olive oil and their vineyards,
he would endeavor to express his gratification at
being able to visit California. He had long desired to
visit California, and it was the objective point of this trip.
He had seen the northern coast and Puget Sound, but had[339]never before been able to see California. He remembered
from boyhood the excitement of the discovery of gold, and
had always distantly followed California's growth and
progress. The acquisition of California was second only
to that of Louisiana and the control of the Mississippi
River. It secured us this great coast, and made impossible
the ownership of a foreign power on any of our coast line.
It has helped to perfect our magnificent isolation, which
is our great protection against foreign aggression. He
thanked the Governor and committee for their kindly reception,
and assured them that if he should have any complaints
to make of his treatment in California it would be
because its people had been too hospitable.
AtColton the presidential party were enthusiastically
greeted by several thousand people. The Citizens' Committee
comprised A. B. Miner, Chairman; Dr. Fox, J. B.
Shepardson, Wilson Hays, W. H. Wright, F. M. Hubbard,
Dr. Hutchinson, H. B. Smith, J. W. Davis, S. M. Goddard,
J. B. Hanna, Captain Topp, W. W. Wilcox, M. A. Murphy,
Prof. Mathews, R. A. Kuhn, C. B. Hamilton, J. M.
White, Dr. Sprecher, Geo. E. Slaughter, R. F. Franklin,
E. A. Pettijohn, E. E. Thompson, Dan Swartz, R. M. McKie,
Wm. McCully and Proctor McCann. The committee
appointed to wait on Mrs. Harrison were: Mesdames
Hubbard, Button, Shepardson, Fuller, Gilbert, Shibley,
Hebbard, and Wright. Twelve school-girls presented as
many baskets of oranges to the lady of the White House.
The President addressed the assemblage and said:
My Fellow-citizens—We have travelled now something more than
3,500 miles. They have been 3,500 miles of cordial greeting from
my fellow-citizens; they have been 3,500 miles of perpetual talk.
It would require a brain more fertile in resources, more diversified
in its operations than the State of California in its richness[340]and productions, to say something original or interesting at each
one of these stopping places; but I can say always with a warm
heart to my fellow-citizens who greet me so cordially, who look to
me out of such kindly faces, I thank you; I am your servant in all
things that will conduce to the general prosperity and happiness of
the American people.
Remote from us of the far East in distance, we are united to you
not only by the ties of a common citizenship, by the reverence and
honor we joyfully give to the one flag, but by those interchanges
of emigration which have brought so many of the people of the
older States to you. At every station where I have stopped since
entering California some Hoosier has reached up his hand to greet
me [laughter and cheers], and the omnipresent Ohio man, of
course, I have found everywhere. I was assured by these gentlemen
that they were making their full contributions to the development
of your country, and that they have possessed themselves of
their fair share of it.
I have been greatly pleased this morning to come out of the land
of the desert and the drifting sand into this land of homes and
smiling women and bright children. I have been glad to see these
beautiful gardens and these fertile fields, and to know that you are
now, by the economical collection and distribution of the waters
of the hills, making all these valleys to blossom like the garden of
Eden. We do not come to spy the land with any view of dispossessing
you, as the original spies went into Palestine. We come
simply to exchange friendly greetings, and we shall hope to carry
away nothing that does not belong to us. [Cheers.]
If we shall leave your happy and prosperous State freighted with
your good-will and love, as we shall leave ours with you, it will
be a happy exchange. [Cheers.]
AtOntario the President received a most patriotic
greeting; throngs of school children brought him flowers.
The Reception Committee was G. T. Stamm, I. S. Miller,
E. P. Clarke, S. G. Blood, R. E. Blackburn, G. W. A.
Luckey, Dr. O. S. Ensign, Dr. R. H. Tremper, and O. S.
Picher.
H. Z. Osborne, of the Los Angeles committee, introduced
the President, who spoke as follows:
My Friends—I thank you for this cordial greeting. I am sure
you will excuse me from extended remarks. I have been subjected
to such a strain in that direction that my brain needs irrigation
to make it blossom with new thoughts. It to me is a pleasure to
look into the intelligent faces of American citizens. No such people
gather in any other country as meet me at every station. They
come from good homes, which are the safety of our commonwealth.
I am pleased to see these children here. Good schools have everywhere
followed the pioneer. You have brought to this new country
the old New England ideas of thrift, of living on a little and
having a good deal left over. [Cheers.]
Banning, the gateway to Southern California, gave the
presidential party an enthusiastic welcome and loaded
them down with fruits and flowers. Mr. Louis Munson,
editor of the BanningHerald, at the head of the Reception
Committee, delivered the welcoming address. The next
day at Arlington, where he had gone to again assist in
receiving the President, Mr. Munson was suddenly taken
with hemorrhage and died as the train passed. Other
members of the committee were M. G. Kelley, W. S. Hathaway,
C. H. Ingelow, W. H. Ingelow, Dr. J. C. King, F. J.
Clancy, W. Morris, and M. L. Bridge. Two hundred Indian
school children, in charge of Miss Morris and Father
Hahn, were objects of interest to the party.
Replying to Mr. Munson's address, the President said
that although the good people of Banning were far in
point of distance from the seat of government, yet he was
sure they were bound nearly and close to it by ties of loyalty
and of patriotism. He expressed his pleasure at meeting
the citizens of Banning and his appreciation of their
cordial welcome.
AtPomona the President's car was profusely decorated
with floral designs by the ladies of the town. The members
of the Reception Committee were Senator J. E. McComas,
Rev. Chas. F. Loop, W. E. Ward, W. M. Woody,
A. H. Wilbur, F. P. Firey, C. I. Lorbeer, Capt. T. C.
Thomas, Geo. Osgoodby, C. D. Ambrose, Con Howe, John
E. Packard, and E. B. Smith. Vicksburg Post, G. A. R.,
H. H. Williams, Commander, was in attendance.
Responding to their cheers and calls the President said:
This cordial demonstration of respect, these friendly greetings,
make me your debtor. I beg to thank you for it all, and out of
such gatherings as these, out of the friendly manifestations you
have given me on my entrance to California, I hope to get new impulses
to a more faithful and diligent discharge of the public duties
which my fellow-citizens have devolved upon me. No man can feel
himself adequate to these responsible functions, but I am sure if you
shall judge your public servants to be conscientiously devoted to your
interests, to the bringing to the discharge of their public duties a
conscientious fidelity and the best intelligence with which they are
endowed, you will pardon any shortcoming. Again I thank you
for your friendliness and beg you to excuse me from further speech.
Thefamous city of Los Angeles was reached at 3
o'clock on the afternoon of the 22d. An ovation awaited
the President and his party here the like of which they
had not witnessed. They were met at Colton by a committee
of escort consisting of Mayor Henry T. Hazard
and Mrs. Hazard, Mr. and Mrs. E. F. Spence, H. W. Hellman,
Gen. and Miss Mathews, W. C. Furrey and wife,
Judge and Mrs. S. O. Houghton, A. W. Francisco and
wife, Col. H. G. Otis and wife, J. A. Kelly and wife, H.
Z. Osborne and wife, Capt. George J. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hervey
Lindley, E. H. Lamme, and L. N. Breed. Fully 20,[343]000
voices greeted the President's arrival at the station,
where the members of the Citizens' Reception Committee,
of which Mayor Hazard was Chairman, received him.
This committee comprised the leading men of the city,
among whom were Hon. R. F. Del Valle, Gen. John Mansfield,
Gen. E. P. Johnson, Gen. A. McD. McCook, Gen. E.
E. Hewitt, Maj. Geo. E. Gard, Hon. John R. Mathews,
Maj. E. W. Jones, Col. H. C. Corbin, Maj. A. W. Barrett,
Col. T. A. Lewis, Eugene Germain, C. F. A. Last, J.
Frankenfeld, W. H. Workman, Joseph Mesmer, L. I.
Garnsey, G. J. Griffith, John W. Green, J. F. Humphreys,
H. L. Macneil, A. E. Pomeroy, Frank W. Sabichi, I. H.
Polk, J. W. Haverstick, S. B. Hynes, R. S. Baker, Harris
Newmark, J. C. Kays, Maj. J. R. Toberman, I. R. Dunkleberger,
Maj. A. W. Elderkin, ex-Gov. Geo. Stoneman, K.
H. Wade, A. E. Fletcher, Col. Joseph R. Smith, W. W.
Howard, Maj. W. H. Toler, Capt. W. H. Seamans, George
W. Bryant, Poindexter Dunn, Judge Lewis H. Groff, Hon.
R. B. Carpenter, Maj. E. F. C. Klokke, Hon. S. M. White,
W. H. Perry, S. C. Hubbell, S. H. Mott, I. N. Van Nuys,
A. Haas, J. de Barth Shorb, Maj. George S. Patton, Maj.
E. L. Stern, Dr. H. Nadeau, K. Cohn, O. W. Childs, Jr.,
L. Lichtenberger, A. H. Denker, Col. George H. Smith,
A. Glassell, Herman Silver, Louis Mesmer, J. M. Elliott,
S. B. Caswell, Dr. Eyraud, William R. Rowland, D, Amestoy,
J. M. Glass, M. L. Wicks, J. A. Booty, Maj. A. F.
Kimball, Capt. H. K. Bailey, Judge W. P. Wade, Judge
Walter Van Dyke, Judge W. H. Clarke, Judge J. W. McKinley,
Judge B. N. Smith, Judge Lucien Shaw, W. W.
Robinson, A. Lowe, K. Loeb, Hancock Banning, Capt.
Will Banning, T. W. Brotherton, W. J. Brodrick, M. S.
Severance, J. Illich, Gen. D. Remick, R. Cohen, Fred
Eaton, H. Siegel, V. Dol, M. Polaski, Dr. John S. Griffin,
J. F. Humphreys, J. M. Davies, Washington Hadley,
George C. Cook, Sanford Johnson, C. O. Collins, Col. F. A.
Eastman, D. Desmond, C. Ducommun, James McLachlan,[344]J. E. Plater, J. F. Towell, John S. Chapman, G. Wiley
Wells, Judge Enoch Knight, J. W. Hendricks, George
A. Vignolo, George R. Valiant, Philip Garnier, Judge W.
P. Gardiner, T. J. Weldon, R. M. Widney, A. C. Shafer,
Freeman G. Teed, Chas. H. White, John Keneally, Joseph
Shoder, Judge J. D. Bicknell, Thomas A. Lewis, Dr. W.
G. Cochran, Louis Phillips, Richard Gird, D. M. McGarry,
J. T. Sheward, J. M. Hale, B. F. Coulter, Andrew
Mullen, H. Jevne, W. S. Moore, L. L. Bradbury, H. J.
Fleishman, Dr. J. P. Widney, George L. Arnold, L. A.
Sheldon, Will D. Gould, R. R. Haines, John McRae, C. J.
Ellis, J. K. Tufts, Dan McFarland, L. Harris, L. Ebinger,
A. E. Pomeroy, ex-Gov. J. G. Downey, ex-Gov. Pico,
T. E. Rowan, O. T. Johnson, Col. W. G. Schreiber, Dr.
W. Lindley, O. H. Churchill, W. G. Kerckhoff, J. A.
Muir, Silas Hoolman, Hon. J. F. Crank, I. B. Newton,
James Castruccio, J. A. Kelly, L. E. Mosher, A. F. Coronel,
J. C. Daly, Dr. W. L. Graves, H. W. O'Melveny, J. H.
Shanklin, Charles Froman, Albert M. Stephens, A. W.
Hutton, Rev. W. J. Chichester, H. T. Gage, Anson Brunson,
Charles Silent, Dr. Joseph Kurtz, Judge T. K. Wilson,
Rev. A. G. Meyer, Simon Maier, Jacob Kuhrts, Judge J.
D. Bethune, Judge M. T. Allen, Albert McFarland, W. E.
Hughes, Herman Silver, Williamson Dunn, R. J. Northam,
Capt. F. N. Marion, Capt. A. M. Thornton, L. Roeder,
H. T. Newell, E. A. Forrester, John W. Wolfskill,
Joseph Wolfskill, H. J. Shoulter, Niles Pease, F. E.
Brown, M. G. Jones, John J. Schallert, Walter Patrick,
Charles F. Harper, F. W. King, J. M. Griffith, C. H.
Hance, J. A. Henderson, Newell Mathews, John Wigmore,
W. C. Howell, H. Baruch, L. W. Blum, Andrew W.
Ryan, J. Schumacher, E. T. Wright, A. B. Whitney, H.
C. Austin, A. E. Davis, M. Dodsworth, R. Rees, William
Lacy, Jotham Bixby, J. W. Potts, L. A. Grant, T. H.
Ward, George P. McLain, J. J. Warner, Henry Owens,
F. M. Nickell, J. H. Dockweiler, Dan Innes, M. D. John[345]son,
Ed. D. Gibson, Charles Stern, H. D. Barrows, M. V.
Biscailuz, H. Hiller, J. E. Yoakum, J. P. Moran, J. W.
Hinton, George Hansen, Len J. Thompson, W. S. Maxwell,
L. Polaski, Theo. Summerland, Joseph Mullaly, P.
Beaudry, James Hanley, L. Bixby, William M. Friesner, C.
Ganahl, Tom Strohm, B. T. Tolbert, Sherman Smith, John
A. Hughes, H. V. Van Dusen, John Bernard, O. J. Muchmore,
C. F. Heinzman, J. C. Quinn, William Pridham, L.
C. Goodwin, C. H. Alford, E. H. Hutchinson, W. H.
Rhodes, A. McNally, E. E. Crandall, J. W. Hendrick, H.
W. Mills, John Goldsworthy, Thomas Pierson, Robert E.
Wirshing, Cyrus Vena, S. W. Luitweiler, R. H. Slater, H.
Bartning, A. H. Denker, E. B. Millar, A. L. Bath, T. S. C.
Lowe, Frank H. Howard, Joseph Maier, J. Frank Burns,
Conrad Jacoby, Charles A. Homer, Judge A. Brunson,
Mark G. Jones, D. McFarland, J. J. Gosper, J. M. Frew,
R. Dillon, Dr. K. D. Wise, T. D. Mott, J. C. Dotter, W. T.
Lambie, Frank Gibson, John Bryson, C. H. Bradley, V.
Ponet, M. C. Marsh, F. J. Capitan, William Ferguson,
M. Meyberg, L. Jacoby, H. Mosgrove, A. Hamburger, Al
Workman, W. T. Dalton, S. Hutton, Dr. J. H. Bryant,
Fred Gilmore, J. H. Book, C. E. Day, C. B. Woodhead,
Gen. E. Bouton, Robert Steere, F. N. Meyers, L. M.
Wagner, and F. E. Lopez.
As the President passed through the crowded streets of
the city, escorted by several hundred G. A. R. veterans,
he encountered a veritable rain of flowers at the hands of
several thousand school children. Arriving at the grand
stand Mayor Hazard, for the Reception Committee, formally
welcomed the President, who responded as follows:
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—My stay among you will not be
long enough to form an individual judgment of the quality of your
people, but it has been long enough already to get a large idea of
the number of them. [Cheers.] I beg of you to accept my sincere
thanks for this magnificent demonstration of your respect. I do
not at all assume that these huzzas and streamers and banners with[346]which you have greeted me to-day are a tribute to me individually.
I receive them as a most assuring demonstration of the love of the
people of California for American institutions. [Great and prolonged
cheering.] And well are these institutions worthy of all
honor. The flag that you have displayed here to-day, the one flag,
the banner of the free and the symbol of the indissoluble union of
the States, is worthy of the affections of our people. Men have
died for it on the field of battle; women have consecrated it with
their tears and prayers as they placed the standard in the hands of
brave men on the morning of battle. It is historically full of tender
interest and pride. It has a glorious story on the sea in those
times when the American navy maintained our prestige and successfully
beat the navies of our great antagonist. [Cheers.]
It has a proud record from the time of our great struggle for independence
down to the last sad conflict between our own citizens.
We bless God to-day that these brave men who, working out His
purpose on the field of battle, made it again the symbol of a united
people. [Cheers.] Our institutions, of which this flag is an emblem,
are free institutions. These men and women into whose
faces I look are free men and women. I do not honor you by my
presence here to-day. I hold my trust from you and you honor me
in this reception. [Great cheers.] This magnificent domain on
the Pacific coast, seized for the Union by the energy and courage
and wise forethought of Frémont and his associates, is essential to
our perfection. Nothing more important in territorial extension,
unless it be the purchase of the territory of Louisiana and the control
of the Mississippi River, has ever occurred in our national history.
[Great cheering.] We touch two oceans, and on both we
have built commonwealths and great cities, thus securing in that
territory individuality and association which give us an assurance
of perpetual peace. [Cheers.] No great conflict of arms can ever
take place on American soil if we are true to ourselves and have
forever determined that no civil conflict shall again rend our country.
[Cheers.]
We are a peace-loving Nation, and yet we cannot be sure that
everybody else will be peaceful, and therefore I am glad that by the
general consent of our people and by the liberal appropriations
from Congress we are putting on the sea some of the best vessels
of their class afloat [cheers], and that we are now prepared to put
upon their decks as good guns as are made in the world; and when
we have completed our programme, ship by ship, we will put in
their forecastles as brave Jack Tars as serve under any flag. [Great
cheering.] The provident care of our Government should be given[347]to your sea-coast defences until all these great ports of the Atlantic
and Pacific are made safe. [Cheers.]
But, my countrymen, this audience overmatches a voice that has
been in exercise from Roanoke, Va., to Los Angeles. I beg you,
therefore, again to receive my most hearty thanks and excuse me
from further speech. [Great and prolonged cheering.]
In the evening the President was escorted to the pavilion,
with a view to receiving personally the citizens, but when
he viewed the great assemblage he desisted from the herculean
task of taking each one by the hand, and instead
thereof made the following address:
Ladies and Gentlemen—I thank you for the warm greeting that
you have given me and the royal welcome you have extended to
my party and myself to your lovely city. I am thoroughly aware
of the non-partisan character of this gathering, and appreciate the
good-will with which you have gathered here in this vast building
to receive me. I had a touching evidence of the non-partisan character
of this gathering—and the good-will as well—just now when
a man said to me: "I want to shake hands with you, even if I did
lose a thousand dollars on your election." There will be no trouble
to keep the flame of patriotism and love of country glowing so long
as the American people thus manifest their loyalty to the officers
whom the will of the people has placed in power. I thank you
again for your good-will and hearty welcome. [Great cheering.]
Thepresidential party reached San Diego Wednesday
evening and was escorted at once to Coronado Beach
Hotel. The Indiana residents of the city called upon the
President shortly after his arrival, and Mr. Wright delivered
an address in their behalf.
My Friends—I regret that I can only say thank you. Our time is
now due to the citizens of San Diego, and I have promised not to
detain that committee. It is particularly pleasurable to me to see,
as I have done at almost every station where our train stopped,
some Indianian, who stretched up the hand of old neighborship to[348]greet me as I passed along. It is this intermingling of our people
which sustains the merit of the home. The Yankee intermingles
with the Illinoisian, the Hoosier with the Sucker, and the people
of the South with them all; and it is this commingling which gives
that unity which marks the American Nation. I am glad to know
that there are so many of you here, and as I said to some Hoosiers
as I came along, I hope you have secured your share of these
blessings.
The formal reception of the President took place Thursday
morning, when he was welcomed by Mayor Douglas
Gunn, at the head of the following Committee of Reception:
Hon. John D. Works, Hon. Eli H. Murray, Hon.
W. W. Bowers, Howard M. Kutchin, Hon. Olin Wellborn,
E. S. Babcock, Col. W. G. Dickinson, Col. Chalmers Scott,
Hon. G. W. Hardacre, W. J. Hunsaker, Hon. George Puterbaugh,
E. S. Torrance, W. L. Pierce, Watson Parrish,
M. A. Luce, N. H. Conklin, Maj. Levi Chase, Col. E. J.
Ensign, James P. Goodwin, M. L. Ward, Col. A. G. Gassen,
James McCoy, Dr. R. M. Powers, W. N. King, A. E.
Horton, L. S. McLure, T. S. Van Dyke, Col. John Kastle,
Carl Schutze, Geo. D. Copeland, M. Sherman, H. L. Story,
D. C. Reed, S. W. Switzer, Col. G. G. Bradt, Thos. Gardner,
E. N. Buck, Dr. D. Gochenauer, Henry Timken, Col.
W. L. Vestal, C. W. Pauly, Col. G. M. Brayton, U. S. A.;
Capt. Leonard Hay, Capt. W. R. Maize, Lieut. E.
B. Robertson, John R. Berry, H. T. Christian, D. H.
Hewitt, Col. A. G. Watson, Daniel Stone, W. E. Howard,
J. S. Buck, R. C. Allen, A. V. Lomeli, Mexican Consul;
J. B. Neilson, Danish Consul; J. W. Girvin, Hawaiian
Consul; M. Blochman, French Vice-Consul; Bryant
Howard, Jacob Gruendike, J. W. Collins, John Long,
Frank A. Kimball, S. Levi, Gen. T. T. Crittenden, J. F.
Sinks, Dr. P. C. Remondino, O. J. Stough, J. S. Mannasse,
Frank M. Simpson, J. E. Fishburne, Warren Wilson,
T. A. Nerney, H. C. Treat, F. S. Jennings, T. M.
Loup, Dr. J. G. Beck, Capt. C. T. Hinde, G. S. Havermale,
H. A. Howard, Philip Morse, George W. Marston,[349]Fred N. Hamilton, E. W. Morse, J. S. Gordon, E. J.
Louis, R. M. Dooley, E. W. Bushyhead, O. S. Witherby,
W. J. Prout, William Collier, J. H. Gay, G. H. Ballou,
F. S. Plympton, J. P. Winship, Tomas Alvarado, Col.
E. B. Spileman, Ariosto McCrimmon, Paul H. Blades,
and Walter G. Smith.
Heintzelman Post, G. A. R., Gen. Datus E. Coon, Commander,
participated in the reception, which was held on
the Plaza. Mayor Gunn delivered the address of welcome.
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—I am in slavery to a railroad
schedule, and have but a few moments longer to tarry in your beautiful
city. If there were no other reward for our journey across
the continent, we have seen to-day about your magnificent harbor
that which would have repaid us for all the toil of travel. [Applause.]
I do not come to tell you anything about California, for I have
perceived in my intercourse with Californians in the East and during
this brief stay among you that already you know all about California.
[Laughter.]
You are, indeed, most happily situated. Every element that
makes life comfortable is here; every possibility that makes life
successful and prosperous is here; and I am sure, as I look into
those kindly, upturned faces, that your homes have as healthful a
moral atmosphere as the natural one that God has spread over your
smiling land.
It is with regret that we now part from you. The welcome you
have extended to us is magnificent, kindly, and tasteful. We shall
carry away the most pleasant impression, and shall wish for you
all that you anticipate in your largest dreams for your beautiful
city [cheers]—that your harbor may be full of foreign and coast-wise
traffic, that it may not be long until the passage of our naval
and merchant marine shall not be by the Horn, but by Nicaragua.
[Cheers.] I believe that great enterprise, which is to bring your
commerce into nearer and cheaper contact with the Atlantic seaboard
cities, both of this continent and of South America, will not
be long delayed.
And now, again with most grateful thanks for your friendly
attention, in my own behalf and in behalf of all who journey with
me I bid you a most kindly farewell. [Prolonged cheers.]
At the conclusion of the President's address Governor
Torres, of Lower California, in the uniform of a Major-General
of the Mexican army, approached the President
and read the following telegram from Gen. Porfirio Diaz,
President of Mexico:
It has come to my knowledge that the President of the United
States, Hon. Benjamin Harrison, shall visit San Diego on the 23d
instant, and I let you know it so that you may call to congratulate
him in my name and present him with my compliments.
Responding to this friendly international salute, President
Harrison said:
Governor Torres—This message from that progressive and intelligent
gentleman who presides over the destinies of our sister republic
is most grateful to me. I assure you that all our people, that
the Government, through all its instituted authorities, entertain
for President Diaz and for the chivalrous people over which he presides
the most friendly sentiments of respect. [Cheers and applause.]
We covet, sir, your good-will and those mutual exchanges which
are mutually profitable, and we hope that the two republics may
forever dwell in fraternal peace.
As the President sat down Governor Torres remarked:
"The Mexican people respond heartily to your kind
wishes."
Onthe return route from San Diego the presidential
train stopped at Santa Ana, a thriving town in Orange
County, where 5,000 people had assembled to greet the
Chief Magistrate. The Committee of Reception was John
T. Nourse, C. S. McKelvey, W. S. Taylor, J. A. Crane,
John Beatty, Geo. E. Edgar, Geo. T. Insley, Capt. H. T.
Matthews, W. H. Drips, and Robert Cummings. Sedgwick
Post, G. A. R., H. F. Stone, Commander, was present.
Prof. M. Manley delivered the address of welcome,[351]and the Hon. W. H. Spurgeon, founder of the city, introduced
the President, who spoke as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—I have already proved your hospitality. It is
very, very generous, and it is very graceful. I have but one doubt
in regard to it, and that is whether I can stand so much of it.
[Laughter and applause.] It has given me great gladness of heart
to look into your faces. I have been discharging some public business
far remote from you, and I hope with some concern for your
interest, for I have tried to take a wide view of public questions
and to have in my mind a thought of the people of this great land.
Our politics should be as broad as the territory over which our
people have spread. It is a part of the history of the country which
has always kept in memory the safety and interests of those who
pushed civilization to the Rocky Mountains and over its rugged
peaks into these fruitful valleys. I am glad to see here this afternoon
these little children. The order in which they have assembled
gives me assurance that they have come from the school-houses,
those nurseries of knowledge and common interests in our American
States.
I am glad that you grow not only the olive-tree in your garden,
but that to the olive-trees that are planted in the household and
bloom about your table you give your greatest attention. Now,
thanking you very kindly and confessing very humbly that I am
not able to repay you for your generous welcome, and leaving to
all these little ones my best hopes for useful, prosperous, and honorable
lives, I bid you all good-by.
Throughthe zealous efforts of Mrs. T. I. Halsted, President
of the Woman's Relief Corps of Orange, Mrs. Emilie
N. Tener, and others, the presidential train stopped at that
town. The Committee of Reception was: Rev. A. Parker,
Robert E. Tener, E. E. Risley, Wm. H. Arne, Mrs. E. B.
Strong, H. W. Wilson, and D. C. Pixley. Gordon Granger
Post, G. A. R., A. Meacham, Commander, was present in
full force.
Responding to enthusiastic cheers the President said:
My Friends—I am glad to look into your smiling faces, and I
thank you for this welcome. California is a State that is favorably[352]situated, and, so far as I can judge, this section is among the most
favored in the State. There is no time for a speech, but we can
shake hands with a few of those who are nearest.
Oneof the most enjoyable visits of the President and
his party was to Riverside, San Bernardino County, where,
on driving from Arlington station, they were welcomed
by several thousand residents of the district. The Committee
of Reception comprised Hon. H. M. Streeter, Judge
W. W. Noland, Judge Harvey Potter, C. O. Perrine, Capt.
C. H. Vosburg, C. M. Loring, A. P. Johnson, F. M. Dunbar,
A. Keith, C. T. Rice, Capt. J. T. Lawler, A. H.
Naftzger, E. W. Holmes, F. McChoppin, Frank A. Miller,
G. W. Dickson, J. A. Wilbur, F. M. Heath, C. N.
Andrews, J. R. Newberry, F. E. Abbott, W. C. Fitzsimmons,
D. W. McLeod, B. R. Williams, C. P. Hayt, and
Mrs. S. A. Ames, representing the city of Riverside; Mrs.
C. W. Sylvester, representing the Woman's Relief Corps;
Mrs. C. Button, representing the W. C. T. U., and Mrs.
Davis.
The President and Mrs. Harrison and all the other members
of the party were treated to a delightful drive through
the celebrated orange groves. The President was accompanied
by Hon. S. C. Evans. Returning from the groves the
President's carriage was halted in front of the High School
building, where 1,400 scholars and several thousand others
had assembled.
On being presented by Mr. Evans the President said:
My Friends—We can tarry only for a moment, as we are already
behind the regular time for leaving. I cannot, however, drive by
this large assemblage of friends, gathered to greet us on the way,
without expressing the delight with which I have looked upon
these beautiful surroundings. My trip from Washington has been
full of pleasures and surprises, but nothing has given me greater
surprise and more pleasure than the drive of this afternoon through[353]this magnificent valley of Riverside. I am glad you are interested
in cultivating the children as well as the orange, and I trust that
their young minds may be kept as free from all that is injurious as
these fine orange orchards are of weeds and everything that is noxious.
May their lives be as fruitful as your trees, and their homes
as happy and full of joy as this land seems to be of the bright sunshine
of God.
The distinguished visitors then proceeded through the
city and reviewed the parade, at the conclusion of which
the President, speaking without introduction, said:
My Friends—I am sorry that we can tarry with you only for a
moment. We are now twenty minutes behind our schedule time
for leaving. If we should stay with you longer we should disappoint
others who are waiting for us at an appointed time.
We are grateful to you for your presence. I have enjoyed very
much the ride through the valley. You are a favored people, and
ought to be, as I have no doubt you are, a law-abiding, liberty-loving,
and patriotic people.
Anothertypical gathering, full of California enthusiasm,
greeted the party at San Bernardino. The Reception
Committee comprised C. C. Haskell, Chairman; J. C.
Lynch, Hon. Samuel Merrill, W. A. Harris, Joseph Brown,
J. N. Victor, L. C. Waite, Richard Gird, W. E. W.
Lightfoot, W. B. Beamer, R. J. Waters, Truman Reeves,
Dr. A. Thompson, Col. T. J. Wilson, D. A. Scott, A. S.
Hawley, J. J. Hewitt, E. B. Stanton, A. G. Kendall,
Dr. J. P. Booth, W. H. Timmons, Wilson Hays, Geo.
Cooley, R. B. Taylor, H. A. Keller, E. E. Katz, Lewis
Jacobs, H. L. Drew, N. G. Gill, and I. W. Lord. Mr.
W. J. Curtis delivered the address of welcome. In response
the President said:
Mr. Mayor and Fellow citizens—I can only repeat to you what I
have already had occasion to say to many similar audiences assembled
in California, that I am delighted with my visit to the Pacific
coast; that much as I had heard of the richness and high cultiva[354]tion,
what I have seen to-day in this great valley has far surpassed
my expectations. You have subdued an unpromising soil and
made it blossom as the rose; but better than all the fruits and harvests,
and better than all the products of the field, is this intelligent
population which out of their kindly faces extend to us a greeting
wherever we go.
I am glad, coming from the far East, to observe how greatly our
people are alike. But that is not surprising, because I find all
through this valley many Hoosiers and Buckeyes I knew at home.
It is not singular that you should be alike when you are really and
truly the same people, not only in lineage and general characteristics,
but the same men and women we have known in the older States.
And now I thank you again, and beg you will excuse me from
further speech, with the assurance that if it were in my power I
would double the rich blessings which you already enjoy. [Cheers.]
Itwas 8 o'clock in the evening when the presidential
train rolled into Pasadena, the home of Governor Markham.
The President's reception was notable for its marked
enthusiasm. The committee of escort that met the party
at Riverside was: Hon. J. A. Buchanan, Mayor T. P.
Lukens, ex-Gov. L. A. Sheldon, Col. G. G. Green, Geo.
F. Foster, and P. M. Green. A great assemblage greeted
the President's arrival, which was celebrated by booming
cannon, ringing bells, and bonfires. The Committee of
Reception, comprising the following leading citizens, welcomed
the President and escorted him to the hotel: Gov.
H. H. Markham, Chairman; J. H. Holmes, W. U. Masters,
C. M. Simpson, Geo. F. Kernaghan, Col. J. R.
Bowler, Delos Arnold, M. M. Parker, W. H. Wiley, W.
E. Arthur, J. W. Wood, Dr. W. L. McAllister, C. D. Daggett,
Judge H. W. Magee, James Clarke, A. B. Manahan,
J. W. Scoville, J. E. Farnum, M. D. Painter, T. Banbury,
W. W. Webster, Prof. T. S. C. Lowe, Rev. E. L. Conger,
Rev. D. D. Hill, Rev. J. W. Phelps, Hon. A. G. Throop,
F. J. Woodbury, G. B. Ocheltree, G. A. Greely, W. L.[355]Wotkyns, C. S. Martin, A. R. Metcalfe, F. C. Bolt, E.
R. Hull, Dr. Mohr, John McDonald, Judge A. McCoy,
B. M. Wotkyns, A. K. McQuilling, S. Washburn, T.
J. Rigg, T. Earley, C. S. Cristy, A. C. Armstrong, A.
McNally, J. Brockway, J. E. Howard, J. S. Hodge,
C. W. Buchanan, O. S. Picher, Dr. Thomas R. Hayes,
M. Fish, J. R. Greer, Jr., A. K. Nash, C. H. Richardson,
J. G. Rossiter, W. T. Vore, Rev. C. E. Harris, H.
H. Rose, J. Banbury, A. Dodworth, Dr. Frary, Judge
M. C. Hester, James H. Campbell, C. C. Brown, A. H.
Conger, W. S. Wright, George Bremner, James McLachlan,
J. S. Cox, C. T. Hopkins, O. E. Weed, J. H.
Baker, L. Blankenhorn, W. S. Monroe, George F. Granger,
W. S. Gilmore, Rev. L. P. Crawford, W. E. Channing,
A. J. Painter, S. H. Doolittle, Dr. George Rodgers, E. E.
Jones, W. D. McGilvray, Webster Wotkyns, Theodore
Coleman, R. M. Furlong, J. W. Vandevoort, B. E. Ball,
E. T. Howe, H. R. Hertel, Charles Foster, G. R. Thomas,
A. F. Mills, Dr. W. B. Rowland, Dr. F. F. Rowland, Dr.
Van Slyck, Rev. J. B. Stewart, D. R. McLean, C. M.
Phillips, C. E. Tebbetts, William Heiss, H. W. Hines, H.
E. Pratt, S. R. Lippincott, J. W. Hugus, W. P. Forsyth,
O. Freeman, S. E. Locke, C. F. Holder, Capt. A. C.
Drake, Prof. J. D. Yocum, J. H. Woodworth, General
McBride, W. T. Clapp, E. H. Royce, Charles Legge, Calvin
Hartwell, J. O. Lowe, T. C. Foster, T. L. Hoag, Dr. Ezra
F. Carr, E. H. May, Dr. Mansfield, G. D. Patton, Prof. S.
C. Clark, H. H. Visscher, F. R. Harris, Capt. A. L. Hamilton,
J. S. Mills, H. B. Sherman, R. C. Slaughter, James
Smith, S. C. Arnold, I. N. Sears, Chas. A. Smith, Wm.
Menner, S. H. Yocum, D. W. Permar, John Permar, I. N.
Wood, Emil Kayser, N. W. Bell, Rev. E. E. Scannell,
Rev. H. T. Staats, W. R. Staats, F. L. Bushnell, H. C.
Allen, Rev. A. W. Bunker, Rev. James Kelso, Judge J. P.
Nelson, C. J. Morrison, M. Rosenbaum, E. S. Frost, F. B.
Wetherby, W. J. McCaldin, A. J. Brown, Dr. Philbrook,[356]Captain Rogers, Dr. S. P. Swearingen, Fred McNally, J. E.
Doty, F. D. Stevens, O. Stewart Taylor, A. F. M. Strong,
C. M. Parker, C. E. Langford, G. E. Meharry, Maj. C. M.
Skillen, Judge B. F. Hoffman, Henry Washburn, Capt.
A. Wakeley, W. S. Nosworthy, J. G. Shoup, Mrs. I. B.
Winslow, Geo. W. Sheaff, Mrs. T. H. Kuhns, P. G. Wooster,
A. McLean, F. L. Jones, Dr. A. H. Palmer, J. J. Allen,
E. C. Webster, Arturo Bandini, Will Forbes, W. W.
Mills, Mrs. Dr. Elliott, L. C. Winston, S. S. Vaught, I.
N. Stevenson, John Habbick, Thomas Croft, Wm. J. Craig,
M. A. De Forest, R. K. Janes, C. W. Mann, John Sedwick,
Homer Morris, Perry Bonham, Prof. Kyle, R. W.
Lacey, Dr. J. C. Michener, A. A. Choteau, A. O. Bristol,
Dr. J. M. Radebaugh, J. F. Mullen, T. M. Livingston, G.
W. Stimson, W. E. Cooley, W. S. Arnold, W. H. Housh,
E. W. Longley, C. W. Hodson, J. D. Graham, M. E.
Wood, F. S. Wallace, Prof. W. P. Hammond, C. S.
Howard, Joseph Wallace, Robert Vandevoort, H. K. W.
Bent, John Allen, George Goings, Jeans James Coleman,
Aug. Mayer, Geo. Taylor, J. D. Requa, Rev. A. M. Merwin,
W. B. Mosher, P. F. McGowan, G. A. Gibbs, F.
K. Burnham, and C. E. Brooks.
The women's Reception Committee to receive Mrs. Harrison
and the other ladies in the party consisted of: Mrs.
L. A. Sheldon, Mrs. J. A. Buchanan, Mrs. J. W. Wood,
Mrs. C. D. Daggett, Mrs. J. R. Bowler, Mrs. James Clarke,
Miss Greenleaf, Mrs. W. E. Arthur, and Mrs. W. U. Masters.
It was 11 o'clock at night when the President and the
gentlemen of his party attended an elegant banquet at the
Hotel Green, over which the Hon. W. U. Masters presided.
Mr. Buchanan proposed the President's health in words of
welcome.
Gentlemen—I beg you to accept my thanks for this banquet spread
in honor of this community of strangers who have dropped in upon[357]you to-night. We come to you after dark. I am not, therefore,
prepared to speak of Pasadena. When the sun shall have lightened
your landscape again and our expectant eyes shall have rested upon
its glories, I shall be able to give you my impressions of your city,
which I am already prepared to believe is one of the gems in the
crown of California. [Applause.]
Perhaps no other place in California has by name been more
familiar to me than Pasadena, if you except your great commercial
city of San Francisco. That comes from the fact that many of
your early settlers were Indiana friends. I am glad to meet some
of these friends here to-night. It is pleasant to renew these old
acquaintances, to find that they have been received with esteem in
this new community. I have found a line of Hoosiers all along
these railroads we have been traversing.
Everywhere our train has stopped some Hoosier has lifted his
hand to me, and often by dozens. As I said the other day,
Ohio men identify themselves to me by reason of that State being
my birthplace, but it is not a surprise to me to find an Ohio man
anywhere. [Laughter.] Ohio people are especially apt to be found
in the vicinity of a public office. [Laughter.] I suppose whatever
good fortune has come to me in the way of political preferment
must be traced to the fact that I am a Buckeye by birth. [Laughter.]
And now I thank you most cordially again for your attention
and kindness. California has been full of the most affectionate
interest to us. I have never looked into the faces of a more happy
and intelligent people than those I have seen on the Pacific coast.
[Applause.]
You occupy the most important position in the sisterhood of
States, stretching for these several hundred miles along the Pacific
shore. You have fortunate birth, and your history has been a succession
of fortunate surprises. You have wrought out here great
achievements in converting these plains that seemed to be so unpromising
to the eye into such gardens as cannot be seen anywhere
else upon the continent. [Applause.]
And now, when I remind you that bedtime was 1 o'clock last
night and the reveille sounded at 6 o'clock this morning on our
car, I am sure you will permit me to say good-night. [Applause.]
Thefirst stop on Friday was at San Fernando, the home
of Dr. J. K. Hawks, who for twenty years was General
Harrison's near neighbor. The Committee of Reception
was: R. P. Waite, S. Maclay, J. Burr, J. S. Kerns, C.
Smith, Colonel Hubbard, Mesdames Bodkin, Hubbard,
Smith, and Misses Platt, Gower, and Jennie Hawks.
Dr. Hawks made a brief address of welcome and introduced
the President, who said:
Ladies and Gentlemen—I am pleased to be introduced to you by
my old and honored friend, and I do sincerely hope that he has
won your respect to the same extent which I learned to respect him
when he was my neighbor. I hope you will excuse me from speaking
further. I thank you all for your friendly greeting.
Thethriving town of Santa Paula, Ventura County,
gave the President and his party a hearty reception, distinguished
above others by a truly mammoth floral piece
24 feet long by 6 feet in width, covered with calla-lilies,
and bearing the word "Welcome" in red geranium letters
40 inches in height. The Committee of Reception was:
W. L. Hardison, Chairman; Casper Taylor, Rev. F. D.
Mather, C. J. McDevitt, F. A. Morgan, F. E. Davis, J. B.
Titus, C. H. McKevett, N. W. Blanchard, Dr. D. W. Mott,
C. N. Baker, A. Wooleven, Harry Youngken, and S. C.
Graham. The Major Eddy Post, G. A. R., Henry Proctor,
Commander, was present.
Maj. Joseph R. Haugh, an old Indianapolis acquaintance,
welcomed the President on behalf of the committee.
President Harrison, replying, said:
My Friends—I cannot feel myself a stranger in this State, so distant
from home, when I am greeted by some familiar faces from
my Indiana home at almost every station. Your fellow-citizen who[359]has spoken in your behalf was an old-time Indianapolis friend. I
hope he is held in the same esteem in which he was held by the
people among whom he spent his early years as a boy and man.
[Cries of "He is!"] That you should have gone to the pains to
make such magnificent decorations and to come out in such large
numbers for this momentary greeting very deeply touches my heart.
I have never seen in any State of the Union what seems to me to
be a more happy and contented people than I have seen this morning.
Your soil and sun are genial, healthful, and productive, and
I have no doubt that these genial and kindly influences are manifested
in the homes that are represented here, and that there is
sunshine in the household as well as in the fields; that there is contentment
and love and sweetness in these homes as well as in these
gardens that are so adorned with flowers. Our pathway has been
strewn with flowers; we have literally driven for miles over flowers
that in the East would have been priceless, and these favors have
all been accompanied with manifestations of friendliness for which
I am very grateful, and everywhere there has been set up as having
greater glory than sunshine, greater glory than flowers, this flag
of our country. [Applause.] Everywhere I have been greeted by
some of these comrades, veterans of the late war, whose presence
among you should be the inspiration to increased patriotism and
loyalty. I bid them affectionate greeting, and am sorry that I
cannot tarry with them longer. [Cheers.]
Threethousand people welcomed the party at San
Buenaventura, including nearly 1,000 school-children, who
bounteously provided the President and Mrs. Harrison
with flowers. The Reception Committee consisted of:
Mayor J. S. Collins, J. R. Willoughby, E. M. Jones, P.
Bennett, C. D. Bonestel, N. H. Shaw, and Cushing Post,
G. A. R., D. M. Rodibaugh, Commander.
Gen. William Vandever welcomed the party, and the
President spoke as follows:
My Friends—I am very glad to meet my old friend and your former
representative, General Vandever. I have had some surprise
at almost every station at which we have stopped. I did not know
until he came upon the platform that this was his home. I have[360]not time to make a speech, and I have not the voice to make one.
I can only say of these hearty and friendly Californians that my
heart is deeply touched with this evidence of friendly regard. You
have strewn my way with flowers; you have graced every occasion,
even the briefest stop, with a most friendly greeting, and I
assure you that we are most grateful for it all. You are fortunate
in your location among the States; and I am sure that in all this
great republic nowhere is there a more loyal and patriotic people
than we have here on the Pacific coast. I thank you again for this
greeting. [Cheers.]
Thereception at Santa Barbara was the most unique
that the presidential party experienced on their trip, and
also one of the most enjoyable; it was a veritable flower
carnival.
Leading the procession was a Spanish cavalcade commanded
by Carlos de la Guerra. The President's escort
was a cavalcade of children marshalled by Mrs. Schermerhorn,
with flower-decked saddles and bridles; then followed
over 100 flower-trimmed equipages, each displaying
a different design and flower and bespeaking the marvellous
flora of Santa Barbara in the month of April. The
stand from whence the President reviewed the procession
and witnessed the Battle of Flowers was a floral triumph;
20,000 calla-lilies were used in its decoration and as many
bright-colored flowers. The battle scene occurred on the
grand stand, immediately opposite the reviewing stand,
between several hundred ladies and gentlemen. The
whole was a spectacle to be witnessed but once in a lifetime.
The parade was under the direction of Grand Marshal
D. W. Thompson, assisted by special aids George
Culbertson, Dr. H. L. Stambach, T. R. Moore, Samuel
Stanwood, Paschal Hocker, and C. A. Fernald. The Committee
of Reception comprised Mayor P. J. Barber, C. F.
Eaton, W. W. Burton, W. C. Clerk, I. G. Waterman, D.
Baxter, E. P. Roe, Jr., C. E. Bigelow, Alston Hayne,[361]Frank Stoddard, L. P. Lincoln, W. N. Hawley, J. W.
Calkins, Geo. A. Edwards, C. C. Hunt, Edward M. Hoit,
Hon. E. H. Heacock, Dr. J. M. McNulta, W. B. Cope, C. F.
Swan, W. M. Eddy, J. C. Wilson, R. B. Canfield; also,
Joseph Sexton, of Goleta; E. J. Knapp, of Carpinteria; T.
R. Bard, of Hueneme; R. E. Jack and E. W. Steele, of San
Luis Obispo; H. H. Poland, of Lompoc, and Dr. W. T.
Lucas and Thomas Boyd, of Santa Maria. Starr King
Post, G. A. R., C. A. Storke, Commander, participated in
the reception.
After witnessing the parade the entire party, including
the ladies, visited the ancient Mission of Santa Barbara
and were taken within its sacred precincts, it being the
second occasion on which any woman was admitted. At
night they witnessed a Spanish dance, conducted by many
ladies and gentlemen, under the direction of F. M. Whitney,
Mrs. Bell, and Mrs. Dibblee. The eventful day closed
with a public reception, participated in by 15,000 people.
Gen. Wm. Vandever delivered an address of welcome,
to which the President, responding, said:
General Vandever, Gentlemen of the Committee and Friends—If
I have been in any doubt as to the fact of the perfect identity
of your people with the American Nation, that doubt has been displaced
by one incident which has been prominent in all this trip,
and that is that the great and predominant and all-pervading American
habit of demanding a speech on every occasion has been characteristically
prominent in California. [Laughter.] I am more
than delighted by this visit to your city. It has been made brilliant
with the display of banners and flowers—one the emblem of
our national greatness and prowess, the other the adornment which
God has given to beautify nature. With all this I am sure I have
read in the faces of the men, women and children who have greeted
me that these things—these flowers of the field and this flag, representing
organized government—typify what is to be found in the
homes of California. The expression of your welcome to-day has
been unique and tasteful beyond description. I have not the words
to express the high sense of appreciation and the amazement that
filled the minds of all our party as we looked upon this display
which you have improvised for our reception. No element of[362]beauty, no element of taste, no element of gracious kindness has
been lacking in it, and for that we tender you all our most hearty
thanks. We shall keep this visit a bright spot in our memories.
[Applause.]
Thefirst stop of the presidential train on Friday, April
25, was at Bakersfield, the gateway of the famous San
Joaquin Valley, which was reached at 8:30 in the morning.
Fifteen hundred residents greeted the President, who
was met by W. E. Houghton, W. H. Scribner, W. Canfield,
and C. E. Sherman, constituting a special Committee
of Reception. The general committee for the occasion
comprised the following prominent citizens: N. R. Packard,
E. M. Roberts, John J. Morrison, Emil Dinkelspiel,
H. L. Borgwardt, Jr., J. Neideraur, P. Galtes, O. D. Fish,
H. A. Jastro, Geo. K. Ober, Dr. Helm, J. J. Mack, E. A.
Pueschel, S. N. Reed, H. A. Blodget, C. A. Maul, Chas. E.
Jewett, A. Harrell, G. W. Wear, Wm. Montgomery, John
Barker, H. P. Olds, E. Willow, B. Brundage, B. A. Hayden,
F. H. Colton, W. H. Cook, B. Ardizzi, C. C. Cowgill,
L. S. Rogers, John O. Miller, Geo. G. Carr, N. R.
Wilkinson, A. Weill, H. C. Lechner, S. W. Wible, Dr.
John Snook, L. McKelvy, A. Morgan, E. C. Palmes,
John S. Drury, W. A. Howell, A. C. Maude, Chas. Vandever,
Alonzo Coons, T. A. Metcalf, R. M. Walker, Richard
Hudnut, Sol. Jewett, J. C. Smith, S. A. Burnap, H.
H. Fish, S. W. Fergusson, J. W. Mahon, A. Fay, Chas.
Bickirdike, H. F. Condict, H. C. Park, and I. L. Miller.
A large number of beautiful bouquets were showered
upon the party here. Judge A. R. Conklin made the welcoming
address. President Harrison spoke as follows:
My Friends—I am very much obliged to you for your friendly
greeting and for these bouquets. You must excuse me if I seem a
little shy of the bouquets. I received one in my eye the other
day which gave me a good deal of trouble. You are very kind to[363]meet us here so early in the morning with this cordial demonstration.
It has been a very long journey, and has been accompanied
with some fatigue of travel, but we feel this morning, in this
exhilarating air and this sweet sunshine, and refreshed with your
kind greeting, as bright and more happy than when we left the
national capital.
I am glad to feel that here, on the western edge of the continent,
in this Pacific State, there is that same enthusiastic love for the
flag, that same veneration and respect for American institutions,
for the one Union and the one Constitution, that is found in the
heart of the country. We are one people absolutely. We follow
not men, but institutions. We are happy in the fact that though
men may live or die, come or go, we still have that toward which
the American citizen turns with confidence and veneration—this
great Union of the States devised so happily by our fathers. General
Garfield, when Mr. Lincoln was stricken down by the foul
hand of an assassin, and when that great wave of dismay and grief
swept over the land, standing in a busy thoroughfare of New York,
could say: "The Government at Washington still lives." It is
dependent upon no man. It is lodged safely in the affections of
the people, and having its impregnable defence and its assured
perpetuity in their love and veneration for law. [Cheers.]
Tularewas reached at 10 o'clock. Nearly 6,000 people
awaited the President's arrival. Capt. Thomas H.
Thompson, E. W. Holland, and Hon. O. B. Taylor met
the distinguished travellers. The other members of the
committee were: Hon. John. G. Eckles, Hon. J. O. Lovejoy,
I. N. Wright, J. Wolfrom, E. T. Cosper, Hon. J. W.
Davis, Sam Richardson, Dr. C. F. Taggart, M. W. Cooley,
H. H. Francisco, C. C. Brock, James Scoon, D. O. Hamman,
J. L. Bachelder, R. B. Bohannan, James Morton,
A. O. Erwin, J. B. Zumwalt, Hon. E. De Witt, Alfred
Fay, J. H. Whited, J. A. Goble, W. L. Blythe, M. M.
Burnett, Scott Bowles, R. L. Reid, F. M. Shultz, B. F.
Moore, F. Rosenthal, Henry Peard, Sam Blythe, J. A.
Allen, E. Lathrop, E. J. Cox, J. F. Boller, Hon. G. S.[364]Berry, R. Linder, Miles Ellsworth, R. N. Hough, C. F.
Hall, Dr. E. W. Dutcher, M. Premo, Hon. John Roth, A.
Borders, T. W. Maples, E. D. Lake, S. S. Ingham, D. W.
Madden, Sam Newell, M. C. Hamlin, W. C. Ambrose, H.
C. Faber, C. Talbot, L. E. Schoenemann, M. C. Hunt,
G. W. Zartman, A. P. Hall, J. H. Woody, Isaac Roberts,
Capt. E. Oakford, J. C. Gist, H. F. Tandy, C. F. Stone,
and Dr. B. M. Alford.
The committee escorted the presidential party to a
unique platform constructed inside the stump of a gigantic
redwood tree, and there was ample seating capacity
upon the platform for the entire party; about the base of
the great stump were arranged boxes of elegant flowers.
Mrs. Harrison and the other ladies in the party were escorted
to the stand by Mrs. E. B. Oakford, Mrs. T. H.
Thompson, Mrs. G. J. Reading, and Mrs. Patrick, of
Visalia. Gettysburg Post, G. A. R., and Company E,
from Visalia, were a guard of honor to the Chief Magistrate.
Governor Markham introduced the President, who spoke
as follows:
My Friends—This seems to be a very happy and smiling audience,
and I am sure that the gladness which is in your hearts and in
your faces does not depend at all upon the presence of this little
company of strangers who tarry with you for a moment. It is
born of influences and conditions that are permanent. It comes of
the happy sunshine and sweet air that are over your fields, and still
more from the contentment, prosperity, and love and peace that
are in your households. California has been spoken of as a wonderland,
and everywhere we have gone something new, interesting,
and surprising has been presented to our observation. There has
been but one monotone in our journey, and that is the monotone of
universal welcome from all your people. [Cheers.] Everything
else has been new and exceptional at every stop.
My own heart kindles with gladness, my own confidence in
American interests is firmer and more settled as I mingle with the
great masses of our people. You are here in a great agricultural
region, reclaimed from desert waste by the skill and energy of
man—a region populated by a substantial, industrious, thrifty,[365]God-fearing people, a people devoted to the institutions under
which they live, proud to be Americans, feeling that the American
birthright is the best heritage they can hand down to their children;
proud of the great story of our country from the time of independence
to this day; devoted to institutions that give the largest
liberty to the individual and at the same time secure social order.
Here is the firm foundation upon which our hopes for future
security rest. What but our own neglect, what but our own
unfaithfulness, can put in peril either our national institutions or
our local organizations of government? True to ourselves, true to
those principles which we have embodied in our Government, there
is to the human eye no danger that can threaten the firm base of
our institutions.
I am glad to see and meet these happy children. I feel like
kneeling to them as the future sovereigns of this country, and feel
as if it were a profanation to tread upon these sweet flowers that
they have spread in my pathway. God bless them, every one;
keep them in the lives they are to live from all that is evil, fill
their little hearts with sunshine and their mature lives with grace
and usefulness. [Cheers.]
A crowdof 10,000 greeted the party at Fresno; upward
of 1,000 school children were present, led by Professors
Heaton, Sturges, and Sheldon. The Committee of
Reception consisted of Mayor S. H. Cole, Dr. Chester A.
Rowell, F. G. Berry, Dr. A. J. Pedlar, Dr. St. George
Hopkins, W. W. Phillips, I. N. Pattison, Louis Einstein,
Nathan W. Moodey, C. W. De Long, and J. C. Herrington.
Altanta Post, G. A. R., Capt. Fred Banta, Commander,
also Company C, National Guard, Capt. M. W.
Muller, and Company F, Capt. C. Chisholm, participated
in the reception. A number of handsome floral designs
and other mementoes were presented to the several members
of the party.
Dr. Rowell delivered the welcoming address. President
Harrison, responding, said:
My Fellow-citizens—It is altogether impossible for me to reach
with my voice this vast concourse of friends. I can only say I am
profoundly grateful for this enthusiastic greeting. I receive with
great satisfaction the memento you have given me of the varied
products of this most fertile and happy valley. I shall carry it
with me to Washington as a reminder of a scene that will never
fade from my memory. It is very pleasant to know that all these
pursuits that so much engage your thoughts and so industriously
employ your time have not turned your minds away from the love
of the flag and of those institutions which spread their secure
power over all your homes. What is it that makes the scattered
homes of our people secure? There is no policeman at the door;
there is no guard to accompany us as we move across this great
continent. You and I are in the safe keeping of the law and of
the affection and regard of all our people. Each respects the rights
of the other. I am glad to receive this manifestation of your
respect. I am glad to drink in this morning with this sunshine
and this sweet balmy air a new impulse to public duty, a new love
for the Union and flag. It is a matter of great regret that I can
return in such a small measure your affectionate greeting. I wish
it were possible I could greet each one of you personally, that it
were possible in some way other than in words to testify to you
my grateful sense of your good-will. [Cheers.]
Thepresidential party arrived at Merced shortly after
noon and was welcomed by several thousand enthusiastic
residents. The Committee of Reception was composed
of the following representative citizens: E. T. Dixon,
Maj. G. B. Cook, L. R. Fancher, C. H. Marks, E. M.
Stoddard, S. A. D. Jones, Frank Howell, W. J. Quigley,
M. Goldman, C. E. Fleming, J. H. Rogers, J. A. Norvell,
Thomas Harris, Maj. C. Ralston, F. H. Farrar,
R. N. Hughes, Judge J. K. Law, Thomas H. Leggett,
and H. J. Ostrander. Hancock Post, G. A. R., J. Q.
Blackburn, Commander, participated in the reception.
Three little girls, Dottie Norvell, Mattie Hall, and Baby
Ingalsbe, representing the citizens of Merced, presented[367]Mrs. Harrison with a beautiful souvenir in the shape of a
large American flag woven from roses and violets.
Chairman Dixon made the welcoming address, and
President Harrison replied in the following words:
My Fellow-citizens—I have scarcely been able to finish a meal
since I have been in California. [Laughter.] I find myself hardly
seated at the table till some one reminds me that in about five
minutes I am to meet another throng of cordial and friendly people.
But I think I could have subsisted on this trip through California
without anything to eat, and have dined the while upon the
stimulus and inspiration which your good-will and kindly greetings
have given me. I do not think, however, from what I have
seen of these valleys, that it will be necessary for anyone to live
without eating. [Laughter.] I have been greatly delighted with
the agricultural richness, with the surprises in natural scenery, and
in the production which have met us on this journey. Everywhere
something has been lying in ambush for us, and when I was thinking
of prunes and English walnuts and oranges we suddenly pulled
up to a station where they had a pyramid of pig tin to excite our
wonder and interest at the variety of the production in this marvellous
State. But let me say, above all those fruits and flowers,
above all these productions of mine and field, I have been most
pleased with the men and women of California. [Applause.] It
gives me great pleasure, too, to meet everywhere these little ones.
I am fond of children. They attract my interest always, and the
little ones of my own household furnish about the only relaxation
and pleasure I have at Washington. [Applause.] I wish for your
children and for you, out of whose homes they come, and where
they are treasured with priceless affection and tender supervision,
all the blessings that a benign Providence and a good Government
can bestow. I shall be glad if in any way I have the opportunity
to conserve and promote your interests. [Cheers.]
Modestowas reached at 2:40P.M.The veterans of
Grant Post, G. A. R., with Company D, N. G. C., and
several hundred citizens, gave the President a rousing
greeting. The Committee of Reception was Hon. John S.
Alexander, Charles A. Post, and Rev. Dr. Webb.
George Perley introduced President Harrison, who
spoke as follows:
Fellow-citizens—It is very pleasant for me to meet here, as at all
the stations I have passed, a kindly assembly of my fellow-countrymen.
We do not need any one to watch us, nor do we need to keep
watch against anybody else. Peace and good-will characterize our
communities. I was quite amused at a station not far from here
to hear a wondering Chinaman remark as he came up to the train,
"Why, they have no guns on board!" [Laughter.] How different
it is with us!—no retinue, no guards. We travel across this broad
country safe in the confidence and fellowship and kindness of its
citizenship. What other land is there like it? Where else are
there homes like ours? Where else institutions so free and yet so
adequate to all the needs of government, to make the home and
community safe, to restrain the ill-disposed, and everywhere to
promote peace and individual happiness?
We congratulate each other that we are American citizens.
Without distinction of party, without taking note of the many
existing differences of opinion, we are all glad to do all in our
power to promote the dignity and prosperity of the country we
love. We cannot love it too much; we cannot be too careful that
all our influence is on the side of good government and of American
interests. We do not wish ill to any other nation or people in
the world, but they must excuse us if we regard our own fellow-citizens
as having the highest claim on our regard. We will
promote such measures as look to our own interests. [Cheers.]
ThePresident's arrival at Lathrop was celebrated by
several thousand residents, re-enforced by large delegations
from the neighboring city of Stockton. The Committee
of Reception consisted of James J. Sloan, A. Henry
Stevens, Z. T. White, O. H. P. Bailey, E. Jesurun, T.
B. Walker, W. S. Reyner, D. Sanguinite, Geo. H. Seay,
O. D. Wilson, C. F. Sherburne, F. D. Simpson, and F. J.
Walker. The Committee of Reception appointed by the
Mayor of Stockton, and participating in behalf of that
city, was J. K. Doak, F. J. Ryan, I. S. Haines, Willis[369]Lynch, H. R. McNoble, J. M. Dormer, and F. T. Baldwin.
A feature of the reception was 100 school children, each
carrying a bouquet, which they presented to the President
and Mrs. Harrison, both of whom kissed several of the
little donors. Postmaster Sloan delivered the welcoming
address. The President, responding, said:
My Fellow-citizens—I should be less than human if I were not
touched by the rapid succession of hearty greetings received by us
in our journey through California. I should be more than human
if I were able to say something new or interesting at each of these
assemblies.
My heart has but one language: it is, "I thank you."
Most tenderly do I feel as an individual so much of this kindness
as is personal to me, and as a public official I am most profoundly
grateful that the American people so unitedly show their love and
devotion to the Constitution and the flag.
We have a Government of the majority; it is the original compact
that when the majority has been fairly counted at the polls,
the expressed will of that majority, taking the form of public law
enacted by State Legislatures or the national Congress, shall be the
sole rule of conduct of every loyal man. [Cheers.]
We have no other king than law, and he is entitled to the allegiance
of every heart and bowed knee of every citizen. [Cries of
"Good! good!" and cheers.]
I cannot look forward with any human apprehension to any
danger to our country, unless it approaches us through a corrupt
ballot-box. [Applause.] Let us keep that spring pure, and these
happy valleys shall teem with an increasing population of happy
citizens, and our country shall find in an increasing population
only increased unity and strength. [Cheers.]
AtKeyes Station, near Merced, the presidential train
was joined by a special car containing the San Francisco
escort committee. The following gentlemen composed
the party and represented the organizations named: Mexican
Veterans—Maj. R. P. Hammond. California Pioneers—L.
L. Baker, W. B. Farwell, Nathaniel Holland,[370]and Col. A. W. von Schmidt. Citizens' Committee—E.
S. Pillsbury, J. B. Crockett, M. M. Estee, Irving M. Scott,
W. D. English, and Rev. Dr. Samuel V. Leech. Loyal
Legion and Grand Army of the Republic—Chief Engineer
J. W. Moore, U. S. N., Commander Loyal Legion; Past
Senior Vice-Commander-in-Chief S. W. Backus; Past
Department Commanders W. H. Aiken, E. Carlson, C.
Mason Kinne, W. A. Robinson, R. H. Marfield, W. R.
Smedburg, E. S. Salomon, T. H. Goodman, G. E. Gard,
and A. J. Buckles; Past Junior Vice-Commander Jesse B.
Fuller, Adjt.-Gen. T. C. Mastellar, Past Commander J. M.
Litchfield, Congressmen E. F. Loud and John T. Cutting,
comrades J. P. Meehan, S. S. Flint, and A. J. Hawes.
Seven o'clock Saturday evening the boom of cannon and
clang of bells signalized the President's arrival at Oakland,
where he immediately embarked on the ferry steamerPiedmontfor passage across the bay. On board thePiedmont,
in addition to the veteran guard of the G. A. R.,
commanded by Capt. Geo. F. Knowlton, Jr., and Lieutenants
Wiegand, Franks and Stateler, were the following
prominent residents: Senator and Mrs. Leland Stanford,
A. N. Towne, R. H. Platt, A. J. Bolfing, H. C. Bunker,
C. F. Bassett, Maj. J. N. E. Wilson, Capt. G. D. Boyd, J.
C. Quinn, Geo. L. Seybolt, George Sanderson, J. Steppacher,
Ass't Postmaster Richardson, G. W. Fletcher, Mrs.
Peter Donohue, Mrs. Geo. R. Sanderson, Mrs. James Denman,
Mrs. W. W. Morrow, Mrs. Joseph McKenna, Mrs.
M. Ehrman, Mrs. E. Martin, and Mrs. J. D. Spreckels.
The scene of thePiedmontcrossing the bay, illuminated
with thousands of lights, covered with flying flags, and
greeted by all the craft in the harbor with myriads of
rockets and lights, was a bewildering spectacle. At a
signal great tongues of flame shot up from the summits of
Telegraph and Nob hills, and the monstrous bonfires from
the deck of thePiedmontresembled volcanoes. The entire
population of the city came out to do honor to the head[371]of the Nation, and the principal streets were beautifully
illuminated.
As the President descended on the arm of Hon. W. W.
Morrow he was met on the wharf by Mayor George H.
Sanderson, Col. Basil Norris, Lieut.-Col. Geo. H. Burton,
Lieut.-Col. John P. Hawkins, Maj. Frank M. Coxe, Maj.
Edward Hunter, Maj. James H. Lord, Capt. Chas. N.
Booth, and First Lieutenants L. A. Lovering and James
E. Runcie, of the regular army; General Dickinson and
staff and city officials. Mayor Sanderson formally welcomed
the President and presented him a beautiful gold
tablet bearing a resolution of the Board of Supervisors tendering
the freedom of the city and county of San Francisco.
Mr. Mayor—I have received with great gratification these words
of welcome which you have extended to me on behalf of the city
of San Francisco. They are but new expressions of the welcome
which has been extended to me since I entered the State of California.
Its greatness and glory I knew something of by story and
tradition, but what I have seen of its resources has quite surpassed
my imagination. But what has deeply impressed me is the loyal
and intelligent and warm-hearted people I have everywhere met.
I thank you for this reception.
Monday, April 27, the President and his party reviewed
many thousand school children assembled on Van Ness
Avenue. Escorted by Mayor Sanderson, General Ruger,
and other distinguished citizens, the party were driven
through the famous Golden Gate Park. At the entrance
the President was met and welcomed by Park Commissioner
Hammond, while awaiting the guests inside was a
reception committee consisting of E. S. Pilsbury, W. D.
English, General Sheehan, Chief Crowley, C. F. Crocker,
Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Wilshire, Judge Hawley, of Nevada,[372]ex-Mayor Pond, Colonel Taylor, Marshal Long, Park Commissioner
Austin, Mr. and Mrs. Francis G. Newlands,
Samuel Shortridge, C. M. Leavy, Surveyor-General Pratt,
Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Le Count, Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Danforth,
Colonel and Mrs. J. B. Wright, of Sacramento, Mr. and
Mrs. Wendell Easton, Mr. Gregory, Mr. and Mrs. Paris
Kilbourn, Mr. and Mrs. Timothy G. Phelps, Senator Carpenter,
of Los Angeles, Miss Harriet Bolinger, Mr. and
Mrs. Bolinger, District Attorney Garter, Mrs. Judge W.
T. Wallace, F. W. Sharon, T. B. Shannon, Mrs. B. L.
Haseltine, and others.
The reception concluded, the drive was continued to
the Cliff House, overlooking Seal Rocks; from thence the
party visited Sutro Heights and became the guests of
Mr. Adolph Sutro. At the close of luncheon Mr. Sutro,
addressing President Harrison, said in part:
Mr. President—I rise to present you a photo-lithographic letter
written by Sebastian Viscano, the great Spanish navigator. This
is probably the first letter in existence written by any human being
from California. It is dated at the port of Monterey, December
28, 1602, named in honor of the Conde de Monterey, then Viceroy
of Mexico. It is addressed to the Court of Spain, and states that
he (Viscano) had taken possession of this country for his majesty.
The original of this letter I found in hunting through the Archives
de las Indias at Seville, Spain. At the date of this letter
Queen Elizabeth was still on the throne of England, Louis XIV. of
France was not born yet, and the Pilgrim Fathers had not yet
landed on Plymouth Rock.
Mr. President, we all thank you for having come to see our
beautiful land, and permit me especially to thank you for the
honor of your visit to Sutro Heights.
With the closing words Mr. Sutro extended to the President
a red plush album inclosing the letter. President
Harrison, in accepting it, said:
I beg to thank you both for this letter and your generous welcome
to a spot the natural beauty of which has been so much
enhanced by your efforts. My visit to Sutro Heights, the cliff, and
park will be a red-letter day in my journey.
The next visit was to the Presidio, where the President
and General Ruger witnessed the brilliant manœuvres of
the troops. Lieutenant-Colonel Graham was in command;
Captain Zalinski was the officer of the day. Captain Morris
led the heavy artillery; Captains Brinkle and Kinzie
commanded the mounted batteries; Colonel Mills headed
the cavalry aided by Captains Wood and Dorst.
In the evening the President attended a banquet in his
honor by California Alpha Chapter of the State University
of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity, of which Mr. Harrison
is a member. George E. de Golbia presided. When the
President arrived he was greeted with the fraternity
cheer. J. N. E. Wilson introduced the honored guest
and proposed the health of "the President."
My Friends and Brothers in this Old Society—I enjoy this moment
very much in being able to associate with you. I was a member
of the first chapter of this fraternity, which you all know was
founded at Miami University, Oxford, Ohio. I have not lost the impression
of solemnity and reverence which I experienced hunting
in the dark in those early times to find my chapter room, and I
am very glad to know that those meetings were not meetings in
the dark. I belonged to the order when it was young, and now I
find its members scattered in all States, where they all hold positions
of trust and influence. I find that in its history it has produced
nothing discreditable to itself, but always something of
which we may all well be proud. I thank you for these few
moments of association with you. [Cheers.]
At night President and Mrs. Harrison, Secretary Rusk,
and Postmaster-General Wanamaker attended an official
card reception at the Palace Hotel, tendered by the citizens
of San Francisco. The visitors were introduced by Col.
J. P. Jackson and George R. Sanderson. The occasion
was one of unusual brilliancy, rendered especially so by
the presence of Admiral A. E. K. Benham and the officers
of the fleet, Gen. Thomas H. Ruger, Gen. G. D. Green, Gen.[374]John P. Hawkins, Gen. John G. Chandler, Col. Geo. N.
Burton, and a hundred or more other officers of the regular
army; Governor Markham and staff in full uniform, Maj.
Gen. W. H. Dimond and staff, Gen. J. H. Dickinson, and
scores of officers of the National Guard, and a thousand or
more private citizens of prominence accompanied by their
wives.
Tuesday, April 28, the President enjoyed an excursion
on the bay on board the steamerPuebla. Following thePueblacame the cruiserCharleston, literally covered with
bunting, and with booming guns, leading a long line of
vessels. The presidential party was accompanied by
Mayor Sanderson, Colonel Andrews, Supervisor Jackson,
Colonel Marceau, Colonel Chadbourne, General Gibbon,
Collector Phelps, Capt. C. M. Goodall, General Cutting,
W. T. Coleman, Wm. Dargie, W. G. Harrison, W. D.
English, Stewart Menzies, Judge Murphy, Judge Troutt,
Barry Baldwin, A. E. Castle, A. Chesebrough, Martin Corcoran,
W. D. Clarke, W. R. Hearst, J. G. Fair, W. J. Dutton,
W. F. Goad, Wm. Harney, John P. Irish, J. D.
Spreckels, Leon Sloss, Levi Strauss, A. W. Scott, W. S.
Tevis, C. L. Taylor, J. H. Wise, C. E. Whitney, R. J. Wilson,
James. D. Phelan, R. H. Pease, Arthur Rodgers, F. W.
Sumner, F. J. Symmes, N. T. James, G. L. Bradner, C. F.
Mullins, Geo. A. Moore, T. C. Grant, and other gentlemen
of prominence.
In the afternoon, at the Union Iron Works, the President
and Mrs. Harrison participated in the launch of the
armored coast-defence vesselMonterey. Mrs. Harrison
pressed the button which signalized the launching of the
great ship, and Miss Gunn, daughter of J. O'B. Gunn,
christened the ship with a bottle of California champagne.[375]On the platform with the President's party were Henry
T. Scott and Irving M. Scott, builders of theMonterey;
master shipwright Geo. W. Dickie, Governor Markham,
and other prominent people.
In the evening the distinguished visitors attended a
banquet and reception at the mansion of Senator and
Mrs. Leland Stanford. Nineteen couples sat down at the
sumptuous table. They comprised the President and
Mrs. Stanford, Senator Stanford and Mrs. Harrison, Governor
Markham and Mrs. Lowe, General Wanamaker
and Mrs. Benham, Secretary Rusk and Mrs. Markham,
General Ruger and Mrs. Russell Harrison, Admiral Benham
and Mrs. Morrow, Col. Lloyd Tevis and Mrs. Dimmick,
Mayor Sanderson and Mrs. Boyd, Hon. M. M. Estee
and Mrs. Moses Hopkins, Col. C. F. Crocker and Miss
Houghton, Senator Felton and Mrs. McKee, Mr. Russell
B. Harrison and Mrs. T. Hopkins, Col. J. P. Jackson and
Mrs. Dodge, Mr. Geo. W. Boyd and Mrs. Hewes, Hon.
W. W. Morrow and Mrs. Estee, Mr. Irving M. Scott and
Mrs. Jackson, Major Sanger and Mrs. Gwin, Mr. H. L.
Dodge and Mrs. Easton. In the Pompeiian parlor of the
mansion the President, with Mrs. Harrison and Senator
and Mrs. Stanford, received the thousand or more guests,
who comprised the prominent society people of San
Francisco and many other cities on the coast.
LeavingSan Francisco on Wednesday, April 29, the
President spent the morning at Senator Stanford's famous
Palo Alto ranch. The first stopen routeto Monterey was
at Redwood City, where a large and enthusiastic crowd,
including 200 school children, welcomed the President.
Geo. S. Evans Post, G. A. R., C. D. Harkins, Commander,
was present. Among the prominent citizens participating
were: H. R. Judah, of San Mateo; Geo. C. Ross, W. R.[376]Welch, Geo. W. Lovie, John Poole, Henry Buger, Sheriff
Kinne, Marshal Jamieson, and Judge Geo. H. Buck, who
delivered the speech of welcome and presented the President,
on behalf of the citizens, with a polished redwood
tablet two feet in width.
As the train moved off President Harrison said:
My Friends—I am sorry that I can say nothing more to you in
the limited time we have than that I am sincerely thankful for
your friendly demonstration.
Arrivingat San José the President remained an hour
and reviewed a parade in his honor. He was received at
the depot by Mayor S. N. Rucker at the head of the following
Committee of Reception: Judge John Reynolds,
Judge F. E. Spencer, D. B. Moody, R. O. Shively, S. F.
Lieb, V. A. Schellar, C. M. Shortridge, T. E. Beans, L. G.
Nesmith, C. T. Ryland, O. A. Hale, H. W. Wright, J. W.
Rea, C. T. Park, A. McDonald, C. T. Settle, H. M. Leonard,
B. D. Murphy, J. H. Henry, A. E. Mintie, S. F. Ayer,
Judge W. G. Lorigan, and H. V. Morehouse. Mayor
Rucker delivered the address of welcome at the court
house.
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—I am again surprised by this large
outpouring of my friends and by the respectful interest which
they evince. I cannot find words to express the delight which I have
felt and which those who journey with me have felt as we have
observed the beauty and, more than all, the comfort and prosperity
which characterize the great State of California. I am glad to
observe here, as I have elsewhere, that my old comrades of the
great war for the Union have turned out to witness afresh by this
demonstration their love for the flag and their veneration for
American institutions.
My comrades, I greet you, every one, affectionately. I doubt
not that every loyal State has representatives here of that great
army that subdued the rebellion and brought home the flag in tri[377]umph.
I hope that you have found in this flowery and prosperous
land, in the happy homes which you have builded up here, in the
wives and children that grace your firesides, a sweet contrast to
those times of peril and hardship which you experienced in the
army, and I trust above all that under these genial and kindly
influences you still maintain your devotion to our institutions and
are teaching it to the children that shall take your places.
We often speak of the children following in the footsteps of their
fathers. A year ago nearly, in Boston, at the great review of the
Grand Army of the Republic, after those thousands of veterans,
stricken with years and labor, had passed along, a great army,
nearly as large, came on with the swinging step that characterized
you when you carried the flag from your home to the field. They
were the sons of veterans, literally marching in their fathers'
steps; and so I love to think that in the hands of this generation
that is coming on to take our places our institutions are safe and
the honor and glory of the flag will be maintained. We may
quietly go to our rest when God shall call us, in the full assurance
that His favoring providence will follow us, and that in your
children valor and sacrifice for the flag will always manifest themselves
on every occasion.
Again thanking you for your presence and friendly interest, I
must beg you to excuse further speech, as we must journey on to
other scenes like this. Good-by and God bless you, comrades.
Twothousand people welcomed the President on his
arrival at Gilroy at 6 o'clock in the evening. The floral
decorations were particularly fine; the piece attracting the
greatest attention was a life-size white bear made of tea-roses.
The Committee of Reception was Mayor Loupe,
Thomas Rea, Geo. E. Hersey, Victor Bassignsno, F. W.
Blake, Professor Hall, and Messrs. Eckhart, Casey, and
Cleveland.
Mayor Loupe introduced the President, who made one
of his briefest speeches. He said:
My Friends—It gives me great pleasure to see you for a moment,
and thank you for your kindness in coming out on this occasion.[378]In all my travels I have never seen a more intelligent and happy
people than I have met in California. Let me introduce you to
Mr. Wanamaker.
AtPajaro Station the presidential party was welcomed
by the Board of Trustees and 2,000 residents of the thriving
city of Watsonville, in the beautiful Pajaro Valley. Six
hundred school children and a young ladies' zouave company
participated in the greeting. The Committee of Reception
comprised the Board of Trustees, E. H. Madden,
T. J. Horgan, James A. Linscott, H. P. Brassell, and the
following prominent citizens of Watsonville: W. A. Sanborn,
A. B. Hawkins, Geo. A. Shearer, Geo. W. Peckham,
W. R. Radcliff, J. A. Hetherington, James Waters,
Mark Hudson, Geo. A. Trafton, John T. Porter, John F.
Kane, and F. E. Mauk; also, Wm. Wilson and C. E. Bowman,
representing the town of Corralitos, and C. R. Whitcher,
Jr., representing Castroville. Chairman Madden
made the welcoming address.
My Friends—I am very glad to see you this evening. I am sorry
that the fatigues of the past few days have left us all in a state not
quite so fresh and blooming as your fields and gardens. We are a
little dusty and a little worn, but you quite rekindle our spirits by
this demonstration. We have ridden with great delight through
this beautiful valley to-day. It seems to me, as we pass each ridge
or backbone and come into a new valley, that we see something
that still more resembles the Garden of Eden. It is a constant
succession of surprises, but most of all I delight to see such convincing
evidence of the contentment and happiness of your people.
I am sure that those I see here to-day must come from happy and
prosperous homes. I wish you all good-by. [Cheers.]
Thepresidential party arrived at Del Monte depot at 8
o'clock Wednesday evening and were the guests of Manager
Schonewald, of the famous Hotel Del Monte. The next
morning the distinguished travellers were driven over to
Monterey, the historic old capital of California; they were
met at the outskirts by the City Trustees and a committee
of prominent citizens, among whom were: C. I. Burks,
Capt. Thomas Bralee, Francis Doud, David Rodrick, F. R.
Day, Edward Ingram, Job Wood, Thomas Doud, J. T.
Stockdale, Jacob R. Leese, Wm. Kay, A. A. Osio, and
H. Whitcomb. The reception was held on the grounds
fronting the old Capitol—now used as a school-house.
After the reception the visitors were taken on an 18-mile
drive through the parks and groves along the Pacific
Ocean. Mayor W. J. Hill, of Salinas, delivered the address
of welcome on behalf of the citizens of Monterey and Salinas,
and presented the President with a silver plate engraved
with a fac-simile of the old Custom House and the
words "The Custom House where the American flag was
first raised in California, July 7, 1846. Monterey, April
30, 1891. Greeting to our President."
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—Our whole pathway through the
State of California has been paved with good-will. We have been
made to walk upon flowers. Our hearts have been touched and
refreshed at every point by the voluntary offerings of your hospitable
people. Our trip has been one continued ovation of friendliness.
I have had occasion to say before that no man is entitled to
appropriate to himself these tributes. They witness a peculiar
characteristic of the American people. Unlike many other people
less happy, we give our devotion to a Government, to its Constitution,
to its flag, and not to men. We reverence and obey those
who have been placed by our own suffrages and choice in public
stations, but our allegiance, our affection, is given to our beneficent
institutions, and upon this rock our security is based. We are not
subject to those turbulent uprisings that prevail where the people[380]follow leaders rather than institutions; where they are caught by
the glamour and dash of brilliant men rather than by the steady
law of free institutions.
I rejoice to be for a moment among you this morning. The history
of this city starts a train of reflections in my mind that I cannot
follow out in speech, but the impression of them will remain
with me as long as I live. [Applause.] California and its coast
were essential to the integrity and completeness of the American
Union. But who can tell what may be the result of the establishment
here of free institutions, the setting up by the wisdom and
foresight and courage of the early pioneers in California of a commonwealth
that was very early received into the American Union?
We see to-day what has been wrought. But who can tell what
another century will disclose, when these valleys have become
thick with a prosperous and thriving and happy people? I thank
you again for your cordial greeting and bid you good-morning.
[Cheers.]
At8 o'clock Friday morning the presidential train halted
at Santa Cruz, the City of the Holy Cross, where another
floral greeting awaited the distinguished guests. They
were met by Mayor G. Bowman at the head of a committee
of prominent citizens, among whom were: Col. Thomas
P. Robb, W. P. Young, Dr. T. W. Drullard, W. Finkeldey,
O. J. Lincoln, W. J. McCollum, A. L. Weeks, P. R. Hinds,
W. H. Galbraith, E. C. Williams, Duncan McPherson,
Wm. T. Jeter, A. A. Taylor, W. D. Storey, F. A. Hihn, Z.
N. Goldsby, Richard Thompson, R. C. Kirby, J. H. Logan,
A. J. Jennings, Judge McCann, J. F. Cunningham, Benj.
Knight, Z. Barnet, E. C. Williams, and J. T. Sullivan.
Grand Marshal J. O. Wanzer, with his aids, U. S. Nichols,
M. S. Patterson, H. Fay, W. D. Haslam, R. H. Pringle,
W. C. Hoffman, and George Chittenden, acted as an escort
of honor to the President during the parade. When the
Pacific Ocean House was reached Mayor Bowman made
a welcoming address. After the reception the party visited
the grove of big trees near the city.
As the President arose to respond the great audience
cheered enthusiastically. He said:
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—It seems to me like improvidence
that all this tasteful and magnificent display should be but for a
moment. In all my journeying in California, where every city
has presented some surprise and where each has been characterized
by lavish and generous display, I have not seen anything so suddenly
created and yet so beautiful. I am sure we have not ridden
through any street more attractive than this. I thank you most
sincerely for this cordial welcome. I am sure you are a loyal, and
I know you are a loving and kindly people. [Cheers.] We have
been received, strangers as we were, with affection, and everywhere
as I look into the faces of this people I feel my heart swell
with pride that I am an American and that California is one of
the American States. [Cheers.]
Thefirst stop after leaving Santa Cruz was at Los
Gatos, overlooking the Santa Clara Valley, where a large
assemblage welcomed the party. The Committee of Reception
comprised the Board of Town Trustees and W.
H. B. Trantham, James H. Lyndon, G. A. Dodge, and C.
F. Wilcox. E. O. C. Ord Post, G. A. R., James G. Arthur,
Commander, was out in full force.
Chairman J. W. Lyndon made the address of welcome
and introduced President Harrison, who said:
My Fellow citizens—If California had lodged a complaint against
the last census I should have been inclined to entertain it and to
order your people to be counted again. [Laughter.] From what
I have seen in these days of pleasant travel through your State I
am sure the census enumerators have not taken you all. We have
had another surprise in coming over these mountains to find that
not the valleys alone of California, but its hill-tops are capable of
productive cultivation. We have been greatly surprised to see
vineyards and orchards at these altitudes, and to know that your
fields rival in productiveness the famous valleys of your State.
I thank you for your cordial greeting. It overpowers me I feel
that these brief stops are but poor recompense for the trouble and[382]care you have taken. I wish we could tarry longer with you. I
wish I could know more of you individually, but I can only thank
you and say that we will carry away most happy impressions of
California, and that in public and in private life it will give me
pleasure always to show my appreciation of your great State.
[Cheers.]
ThePresident returned to San Francisco from his trip to
Monterey and Santa Cruz at noon Friday, May 1. He was
met across the bay by W. W. Montague, Geo. C. Perkins,
and Oliver Eldridge, constituting a committee of escort
from the Chamber of Commerce. Arrived at the Chamber
of Commerce the President was met by the following
Reception Committee, trustees of the Chamber, composed
of: William L. Merry, A. J. Ralston, W. T. Y. Schenck,
Robert Watt, A. R. Briggs, James Carolan, N. W. Spaulding,
General Dimond, John Rosenfeld, Charles R. Allen,
J. J. McKinnon, C. B. Stone, and Louis Parrott. On the
floor of the Merchants' Exchange the President was greeted
by a great and enthusiastic assembly, composed of members
of the following bodies invited to participate in the
reception: Mexican War Veterans, Society of Pioneers,
Territorial Pioneers, Geographical Society, Art Association,
Geological Society, State Board of Trade, Board of
Trade of the city, Bar Association, Bankers' Association,
Produce Exchange, San Francisco Stock Exchange, Merchants'
Exchange, Boards of Brokers, Boards of Marine
Institute, Chamber of Commerce, Manufacturers' Association,
and California Academy of Sciences. Colonel Taylor,
President of the Chamber of Commerce, delivered an able
address upon the trade of the Pacific coast, and closed by
cordially welcoming President Harrison, Postmaster-General
Wanamaker, and Secretary Rusk.
When the President arose to respond he was greeted[383]with a storm of applause. His address was punctured
throughout with cheers. He said:
Mr. President and Gentlemen of these Assembled Societies—I have
been subjected during my stay in California in some respects to
the same treatment the policeman accords to the tramp—I have
been kept moving on. You have substituted flowers and kindness
for the policeman's baton. And yet, notwithstanding all this, we
come to you this morning not exhausted or used up, but a little
fatigued. Your cordial greetings are more exhilarating than your
wine, and perhaps safer for the constitution. [Laughter and applause.]
I am glad to stand in the presence of this assemblage of business
men. I have tried to make this a business Administration.
[Applause.] Of course we cannot wholly separate politics from a
national Administration, but I have felt that every public officer
owed his best service to the people, without distinction of party
[cries of "Good! good!" and applause]; that in administering official
trusts we were in a very strict sense, not merely in a figurative
sense, your servants. It has been my desire that in every
branch of the public service there should be improvement. I have
stimulated all the Secretaries and have received stimulus from
them in the endeavor, in all the departments of the Government
that touch your business life, to give you as perfect a service as
possible. This we owe to you; but if I were pursuing party ends
I should feel that I was by such methods establishing my party in
the confidence of the people. [Applause.]
I feel that we have come to a point where American industries,
American commerce, and American influence are to be revived
and extended. The American sentiment and feeling was never
more controlling than now; and I do not use that term in the narrow
sense of native American, but to embrace all loyal citizens,
whether native-born or adopted, who have the love of our flag
in their hearts. [Great cheering.] I shall speak to-night, probably,
at the banquet of business men, and will not enter into any
lengthy discussion here. Indeed, I am so careful not to trespass
upon any forbidden topic, that I may not in the smallest degree
offend those who have forgotten party politics in extending this
greeting to us, that I do not know how far I should talk upon
these public questions. But since your Chairman has alluded to
them, I can say I am in hearty sympathy with the suggestions he
has made. I believe there are methods by which we shall put the
American flag upon the sea again. [Applause.] In speaking the[384]other day I used an illustration which will perhaps be apt in this
company of merchants. You recall, all of you, certainly those of
my age, the time when no merchant sent out travelling men. He
expected the buyer to come to his store. Perhaps that was well
enough; but certain enterprising men sought custom by putting
travelling men with samples on the road. However the conservative
merchant regarded that innovation, he had but one choice—to
put travelling men on the road or go out of business. In this
question of shipping we are in a similar condition. The great
commercial governments of the world have stimulated their shipping
interests by direct or indirect subsidies, while we have been
saying: "No, we prefer the old way." We must advance or—I
will not say go out of business, for we have already gone out.
[Applause.] I thank you most cordially for your greeting, and
bid you good-by. [Applause.]
Fromthe Chamber of Commerce the President and his
party were escorted to the Mechanics' Pavilion by the
Veteran Guard under Captain Knowlton, preceded and
followed by Lincoln, Garfield, Cass, Meade, Liberty, and
Geo. Sykes posts, G. A. R. Fully 10,000 children and citizens
were assembled to witness the May Day festivities
under the auspices of the G. A. R. posts. Escorted by
Grand Marshal Saloman, the President advanced to the
stage and was received by Hon. Henry C. Dibble, who presented
him to the throng of veterans and children.
Comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic—It will not be possible
in so large a hall for me to make myself heard, and yet I cannot
refuse when appealed to to say a word of kindly greeting to
those comrades who have found their homes on the Pacific coast.
I have no doubt that all the loyal States of the Union are represented
in this assembly, and it is pleasant to know that, after the
strife and hardships of those years of battle, you have found among
the flowers and fruits of the earth homes that are full of pleasantness
and peace.
It was that these things might continue to be that you went to[385]battle; it was that these homes might be preserved; it was that
the flag and all that it symbolizes might be perpetuated, that you
fought and many of our comrades died. All this land calls you
blessed. The fruits of division and strife that would have been
ours if secession had succeeded would have been full of bitterness.
The end that was attained by your valor under the providence of
God has brought peace and prosperity to all the States. [Applause.]
It gave me great pleasure in passing through the Southern States
to see how your work had contributed to their prosperity. No man
can look upon any of these States through which we campaigned
and fought without realizing that what seemed to their people a
disaster was, under God, the opening of a great gate of prosperity
and happiness.
All those fires of industry which I saw through the South were
lighted at the funeral pyre of slavery. [Cries of "Good! good!"
and applause.] They were impossible under the conditions that
existed previously in those States. We are now a homogeneous
people. You in California, full of pride and satisfaction with the
greatness of your State, will always set above it the greater glory
and the greater citizenship which our flag symbolizes. [Cheers.]
You went into the war for the defence of the Union; you have
come out to make your contribution to the industries and progress
of this age of peace. As in our States of the Northwest the
winter covering of snow hides and warms the vegetation, and
with the coming of the spring sun melts and sinks into the earth
to refresh the root, so this great army was a covering and defence,
and when the war was ended, turned into rivulets of refreshment
to all the pursuits of peace. There was nothing greater in all the
world's story than the assembling of this army except its disbandment.
It was an army of citizens; and when the war was over
the soldier was not left at the tavern—he had a fireside toward
which his steps hastened. He ceased to be a soldier and became a
citizen. [Cheers.]
I observe, as I look into your faces, that the youth of the army
must have settled on the Pacific coast. [Laughter and applause.]
You are younger men here than we are in the habit of meeting at
our Grand Army posts in the East. May all prosperity attend you;
may you be able to show yourselves in civil life, as in the war,
the steadfast, unfaltering, devoted friends of this flag you are
willing to die for. [Great cheering.]
Inthe evening President Harrison attended a grand
banquet given in his honor by the prominent citizens at
the Palace Hotel. Of all the entertainments extended to
the distinguished visitors on their journey this banquet was
beyond question the most notable. Representatives of the
business, professional, political, educational, and society
circles of the city were present in numbers. The brilliant
affair was largely directed by Colonel Andrews, Alfred
Bovier, Geo. R. Sanderson, and Messrs. Le Count, Jackson,
and Menzies of the Citizens' Committee.
The President was escorted to the banquet hall by General
Barnes and introduced to the distinguished assembly
quite early in the evening. After the vociferous cheering
subsided General Harrison rewarded the magnificent assemblage
with an address that called forth from the press of
the country general commendation, and is only second to
his great speech at Galveston. He said:
Mr. President and Gentlemen—When the Queen of Sheba visited
the court of Solomon and saw its splendors she was compelled to
testify that the half had not been told her. Undoubtedly the emissaries
of Solomon's court, who had penetrated to her distant territory,
found themselves in a like situation to that which attends
Californians when they travel East—they are afraid to put too
much to test the credulity of their hearers [laughter and applause],
and as a gentleman of your State said to me, it has resulted in a
prevailing indisposition among Californians to tell the truth out of
California. [Laughter and applause.] Not at all because Californians
are unfriendly to the truth, but solely out of compassion for
their hearers they address themselves to the capacity of those who
hear them. [Laughter.] And taking warning by the fate of the
man who told a sovereign of the Indies that he had seen water so
solid that it could be walked upon, they do not carry their best
stories away from home. [Laughter.]
It has been, much as I have heard of California, a brilliant disillusion
to me and to those who have journeyed with me. The
half had not been told of the productiveness of your valleys, of the[387]blossoming orchards, of the gardens laden with flowers. We have
seen and been entranced. Our pathway has been strewn with
flowers. We have been surprised, when we were in a region of
orchards and roses, to be suddenly pulled up at a station and asked
to address some remarks to a pyramid of pig tin. [Laughter and
applause.]
Products of the mine, rare and exceptional, have been added to
the products of the field, until now the impression has been made
upon my mind that if any want should be developed in the arts,
possibly if any wants should be developed in statesmanship, or
any vacancies in office [great laughter], we have here a safe reservoir
that can be drawn uponad libitum. [Laughter]. But, my
friends, sweeter than all the incense of flowers, richer than all the
products of mines, has been the gracious, unaffected, hearty kindness
with which the people of California have everywhere received
us. Without division, without dissent, a simple yet magnificent
and enthusiastic American welcome. [Great applause.]
It is gratifying that it should be so. We may carry into our
campaigns, to our conventions and congresses, discussions and
divisions, but how grand it is that we are a people who bow reverently
to the decision when it is rendered, and who will follow
the flag always, everywhere, with absolute devotion of heart without
asking what party may have given the leader in whose hands
it is placed. [Enthusiastic cheering.]
I believe that we have come to a new epoch as a Nation. There
are opening portals before us inviting us to enter—opening portals
to trade and influence and prestige such as we have never seen
before. [Great applause.] We will pursue the paths of peace; we
are not a warlike Nation; all our instincts, all our history is in the
lines of peace. Only intolerable aggression, only the peril of our
institutions—of the flag—can thoroughly arouse us. [Great applause.]
With capability for war on land and on sea unexcelled
by any nation in the world, we are smitten with the love of peace.
[Applause.] We would promote the peace of this hemisphere by
placing judiciously some large guns about the Golden Gate [great
and enthusiastic cheering]—simply for saluting purposes [laughter
and cheers], and yet they should be of the best modern type.
[Cheers.]
We should have on the sea some good vessels. We don't need
as great a navy as some other people, but we do need a sufficient
navy of first-class ships, simply to make sure that the peace of the
hemisphere is preserved [cheers]; simply that we may not leave
the great distant marts and harbors of commerce and our few citi[388]zens
who may be domiciled there to feel lonesome for the sight of
the American flag. [Cheers.]
We are making fine progress in the construction of the navy.
The best English constructors have testified to the completeness and
perfection of some of our latest ships. It is a source of great gratification
to me that here in San Francisco the energy, enterprise,
and courage of some of your citizens have constructed a plant
capable of building the best modern ships. [Cries of "Good!
good!" and cheers.]
I saw with delight the magnificent launch of one of these new
vessels. I hope that you may so enlarge your capacities for construction
that it will not be necessary to send any naval vessel
around the Horn. We want merchant ships. [Cheers.] I believe
we have come to a time when we should choose whether we will
continue to be non-participants in the commerce of the world or
will now vigorously, with the push and energy which our people
have shown in other lines of enterprise, claim our share of the
world's commerce. [Cheers.]
I will not enter into the discussion of methods of the Postal bill
of the last session of Congress, which marks the beginning. Here
in California, where for so long a time a postal service that did
not pay its own way was maintained by the Government, where
for other years the Government has maintained mail lines into
your valleys, reaching out to every remote community, and paying
out yearly a hundred times the revenue that was derived, it ought
not to be difficult to persuade you that our ocean mail should not
longer be the only service for which we refuse to expend even the
revenues derived from it.
It is my belief that, under the operation of the law to which
I have referred, we shall be able to stimulate ship-building, to
secure some new lines of American steamships, and to increase the
ports of call of all those now established. [Enthusiastic cheering.]
It will be my effort to do what may be done under the powers
lodged in me by the law to open and increase trade with the countries
of Central and South America. I hope it may not be long—I
know it will not be long if we but unitedly pursue this great scheme—until
one can take a sail in the bay of San Francisco and see
some deep-water ships come in bearing our own flag. [Enthusiastic
and continued cheering.]
During our excursion the other day I saw three great vessels
come in; one carried the Hawaiian and two the English flag. I
am a thorough believer in the construction of the Nicaragua Canal.
You have pleased me so much that I would like a shorter water[389]communication between my State and yours. [Cheers.] Influences
and operations are now started that will complete, I am sure,
this stately enterprise; but, my fellow-citizens and Mr. President,
this is the fifth time this day that I have talked to gatherings of
California friends, and we have so much taxed the hospitality of
San Francisco in making our arrangements to make this city the
centre of a whole week's sight-seeing that I do not want to add to
your other burdens the infliction of longer speech. [Cries of "Go
on!"] Right royally have you welcomed us with all that is rich
and prodigal in provision and display. With all graciousness and
friendliness I leave my heart with you when I go. [Great and
prolonged cheering.]
EarlySaturday morning, May 2, the President left
San Francisco, accompanied by Mrs. Harrison and Mrs.
Dimmick, Secretary Rusk, Marshal Ransdell, and Major
Sanger, to visit the capital city, Sacramento. They were
met at Davisville by a special committee consisting of:
Hon. Newton Booth, Hon. A. P. Catlin, Hon. W. C. Van
Fleet, Col. J. B. Wright, Hon. J. O. Coleman, Maj. Wm.
McLaughlin, Col. C. H. Hubbard, Hon. N. Curtis, Hon.
Theo. Reichert, R. B. Harmon, and Hon. W. C. Hendricks.
A presidential salute at 8 o'clock announced the arrival
of the Chief Magistrate, who was welcomed by Hon. W.
D. Comstock, Mayor of the city, at the head of the following
distinguished Committee of Reception: Hon. J. W.
Armstrong, Prof. E. C. Atkinson, Hon. Frederick Cox,
Edwin F. Smith, H. M. Larue, P. S. Lawson, W. A. Anderson,
Wells Drury, C. K. McClatchy, Maj. H. Weinstock,
A. A. Van Voorhies, A. S. Hopkins, T. W. Humphrey,
Hon. F. R. Dray, Wm. Beckman, R. D. Stephens,
W. P. Coleman, Dr. Wm. H. Baldwin, Allen Towle, Dr. G.
L. Simmons, C. T. Wheeler, J. C. Pierson, W. H. H. Hart,
A. Abbott, Chas. McCreary, Rev. Stephenson, T. M. Lindley,
E. W. Roberts, Grove L. Johnson, Frank Miller,
Dr. W. R. Cluness, H. W. Byington, Chris. Green, Clinton[390]L. White, Alonzo R. Conklin, Wm. Geary, Gen. A. L.
Hart, Dr. S. Bishop, L. Tozer, D. H. McDonald, L. W.
Grothan, W. H. Ambrose, J. S. McMahon, Geo. W. Chesley,
W. R. Strong, Rev. A. C. Herrick, T. M. Lindley, H.
J. Small, Felix Tracy, C. A. Luhrs, Philip Scheld, Wm.
Land, H. G. May, C. A. Jenkins, Geo. C. McMulle, Jabez
Turner, M. A. Baxter, O. W. Erlewine, Albert Hart, L.
Elkus, B. B. Brown, T. C. Adams, B. U. Steinman, G. W.
Safford, W. D. Perkins, Ed. F. Taylor, A. J. Johnston, E.
Greer, L. Mebus, W. E. Gerber, S. E. Carrington, E. C.
Hart, Dr. M. Gardner, Dr. T. W. Huntington, Chris.
Weisel, Joseph E. Werry, W. F. Knox, E. W. Hale, Dr.
G. M. Dixon, W. O. Bowers, Geo. W. Hancock, E. G.
Blessing, A. J. Rhoads, R. S. Carey, E. B. Willis, Jud
C. Brusie, T. L. Enright, V. S. McClatchy, Wm. J.
Davis, Dr. J. R. Laine, Geo. M. Mott, Harrison Bennett,
R. M. Clarken, Jerry Paine, J. W. Wilson, John Weil,
Gen. J. G. Martine, H. B. Neilson, Chas. M. Campbell,
M. S. Hammer, J. M. Avery, Dr. H. L. Nichols, W. W.
Cuthbert, James I. Felter, R. H. Singleton, E. M. Luckett,
L. L. Lewis, C. S. Houghton, C. A. Yoerk, T. H. Berkey,
P. Herzog, M. J. Dillman, Robert T. Devlin, A. Poppert,
J. L. Huntoon, Capt. Wm. Siddons, Maj. W. A.
Gett, C. J. Ellia, F. W. Fratt, Judge H. O. Beatty, W.
A. Curtis, H. A. Guthrie, Thomas Scott, Benj. Wilson,
Chas. Wieger, H. Fisher, C. H. Gilman, W. L. Duden, S. S.
Holl, J. Frank Clark, H. G. Smith, L. Williams, John
Gruhler, F. A. Jones, R. J. Van Voorhies, James Woodburn,
Samuel Gerson, M. A. Burke, C. C. Bonte, Lee Stanley,
Perrin Stanton, A. Mazzini, John F. Slater, J. E.
Burke, Capt. J. H. Roberts, Thos. Geddes, S. L. Richards,
M. M. Drew, Gen. Geo. B. Cosbey, J. F. Linthicum, J.
N. Larkin, Richard Burr, and Samuel Lavenson.
The march from the depot to the Capitol grounds was
one continuous ovation. The veterans of Warren, Sumner,
and Fair Oaks posts, G. A. R., acted as an escort of[391]honor. The militia was commanded by Gen. T. W. Sheehan.
More than 30,000 people witnessed or participated
in the demonstration. As the President passed Pioneer
Hall he halted the column to receive the greetings of the
venerable members of the Sacramento Society. Governor
Markham delivered an eloquent address, reciting the discovery
of gold in California, reviewing the President's
tour through the State, and bidding him "good-by and
God-speed." Ex-Governor Booth and Secretary Rusk also
made short speeches. Postmaster-General Wanamaker
was detained at San Francisco, inspecting sites for a new
post-office. His absence was a disappointment to the
postal employees, who sent him a silver tablet, the size of
a money-order, engraved with their compliments, as a
memento.
Governor Markham and Fellow-citizens—Our eyes have rested
upon no more beautiful or impressive sight since we entered California.
This fresh, delightful morning, this vast assemblage of
contented and happy people, this building, dedicated to the uses
of civil government—all things about us tend to inspire our hearts
with pride and with gratitude.
Gratitude to that overruling Providence that turned hither after
the discovery of this continent the steps of those who had the
capacity to organize a free representative government.
Gratitude to that Providence that has increased the feeble colonies
on an inhospitable coast to these millions of prosperous people,
who have found another sea and populated its sunny shores with a
happy and growing people. [Applause.]
Gratitude to that Providence that led us through civil strife to a
glory and a perfection of unity as a people that was otherwise
impossible.
Gratitude that we have to-day a Union of free States without a
slave to stand as a reproach to that immortal declaration upon
which our Government rests. [Cheers.]
Pride that our people have achieved so much; that, triumphing
over all the hardships of those early pioneers, who struggled in the
face of discouragement and difficulties more appalling than those
that met Columbus when he turned the prows of his little vessels[392]toward an unknown shore; that, triumphing over perils of starvation,
perils of savages, perils of sickness, here on the sunny slope
of the Pacific they have established civil institutions and set up
the banner of the imperishable Union. [Cheers.]
Every Californian who has followed in their footsteps, every man
and woman who is to-day enjoying the harvest of their endeavors,
should always lift his hat to the pioneer of '49. [Cheers.]
We stand here at the political centre of a great State, in this building
where your lawmakers assemble, chosen by your suffrages to
execute your will in framing those rules of conduct which shall
control the life of the citizen. May you always find here patriotic,
consecrated men to do your work. May they always assemble here
with a high sense of duty to those brave, intelligent, and honorable
people. May they catch the great lesson of our Government, that
our people need only such regulation as shall restrain the ill-disposed
and shall give the largest liberty to individual enterprise
and effort. [Cheers.]
No man is gifted with speech to describe the beauty and the
impressiveness of this great occasion. I am awed in this presence.
I bow reverently to this great assembly of free, intelligent, enterprising
American sovereigns. [Cheers.]
I am glad to have this hasty glimpse of this early centre of
immigration. I am glad to stand at the place where that momentous
event, the discovery of gold, transpired, and yet, after you
have washed your sand of gold, after the eager rush for sudden
wealth, after all this you have come into a heritage in the possession
of these fields, in those enduring and inexhaustible treasures
of your soil, which will perpetually sustain a great population.
In parting, sir [to the Governor], to you as the representative of
this people I give the most hearty thanks of all who journey with
me and my own for the early, continuous, kindly, yea, even affectionate
attention which has followed us in all our footsteps through
California. [Great cheering.]
Onleaving Sacramento the President made a brief stop
at Benicia, where a large crowd greeted him, including the
school children, who bombarded him with flowers. The
welcoming committee was D. M. Hart, President of the
Board of Trustees; A. Dalton, Jr., S. C. Gray, and W. H.
Foreman.
In response to calls for a speech the President said:
My Friends—I thank you most sincerely for this pleasant tribute
which I have received from these children. It is a curious thing,
perhaps, that among the earliest towns that became familiar to me
in my younger days was Benicia. In 1857, when the United States
sent an armed expedition to Utah, and thence across the continent,
I happened to have an elder and much-beloved brother who was a
lieutenant in that campaign. He was stationed at Benicia Barracks,
and his letters from this place have fixed it in my memory,
and recalls to me, as I stand here this morning, very tender memories
of one who has long since gone to his rest. I thank you again
for this demonstration.
ThePresident arrived at West Berkeley station at 1
o'clock and was met by the Berkeley Reception Committee,
consisting of C. R. Lord, J. L. Scotchler, R. Rickard, E. F.
Neihauser, Samuel Heywood, C. Gaines, J. S. Eastman,
John Squires, F. B. Cone, Chris. Johnson, John Finn,
George Schmidt, L. Gottshall, A. F. Fonzo, H. W. Taylor,
and C. E. Wulferdingen. A procession was formed, and
amid thousands of enthusiastic onlookers the party was
driven to the State University. At the main entrance the
President found the Faculty, the University Battalion,
and about 1,000 other people awaiting his coming. Acting
President Kellogg briefly welcomed the distinguished
guest.
The President, standing with uncovered head in the
carriage, spoke as follows:
It gives me great pleasure even to inspect these grounds and the
exterior of these buildings devoted to education. Our educational
institutions, beginning with the primary common schools and culminating
in the great universities of the land, are the instrumentalities
by which the future citizens of this country are to be trained
in the principles of morality and in the intellectual culture which[394]will fit them to maintain, develop, and perpetuate what their
fathers have begun.
I am glad to receive your welcome, and only regret that it is
impossible for me to make a closer observation of your work. I
unite with you in mourning the loss which has come to you in the
death of Professor Le Conte. I wish for the institution and for
those who are called here to train the young the guidance and
blessing of God in all their endeavors.
Leaving the University the President was rapidly driven
through a beautiful residence district and entered the
grounds of the California Institute of the Deaf, Dumb and
Blind. Before the great edifice stood the teachers: G.
B. Goodall, T. D'Estrella, T. Grady, F. O'Donnell,
Henry Frank, Douglas Kieth, C. T. Wilkinson, N. F.
Whipple, Mary Dutch, Laura Nourse, Elizabeth Moffitt,
Rose Sedgwick, Otto Fleissner, and Charles S. Perry. Assembled
on the green were more than 200 afflicted little
ones. The blind welcomed the President with their sympathetic
voices, the dumb looked upon him and smiled,
while the deaf waved their little hands with joy. Superintendent
Wilkinson in an address warmly thanked the
party for their visit.
It gives me great pleasure to stop for a moment at one of these
institutions so characteristic of our Christian civilization. In the
barbarous ages of the world the afflicted were regarded by superstition
unhelpful, or treated with cruel neglect; but in this better
day the States are everywhere making magnificent provision for
the comfort and education of the blind and deaf and dumb.
Where one avenue to the mind has been closed science is opening
another. The eye does the work of the ear, the finger the work of
the tongue for the dumb, and touch becomes sight to the blind. I
am sure that gladness has come to all these young hearts through
the benevolent, careful, and affectionate instruction they are receiving
here. I thank you, and wish all of you the utmost happiness
through life.
Leavingthe Asylum for the Blind the presidential party
was driven rapidly to Oakland, passing through the suburban
town of Temescal, where a large crowd, including
several hundred school children, greeted the distinguished
visitors. The President was accompanied by Mayor Melvin
Chapman and the following members of the Oakland
Reception Committee: Ex-Mayor John R. Glascock,
Hon. Geo. E. Whitney, Senator W. E. Dargie, J. G. McCall,
A. C. Donnell, T. C. Coogan, John P. Irish, Hon. E.
S. Denison, C. D. Pierce, J. W. McClymonds, W. D.
English, H. M. Sanborn, M. J. Keller, J. F. Evans, A.
W. Bishop, W. W. Foote, Robert McKillican, Charles
G. Yale, G. W. McNear, W. R. Thomas, C. B. Evans,
and Maj. F. R. O'Brien.
As the presidential carriage turned into Jackson Street
at half-past 1 o'clock nearly 10,000 school children welcomed
the Chief Magistrate with a fusillade of bouquets.
The crowd was so great the President was unable to reach
the reviewing stand, where Mr. Wanamaker awaited him.
Making the best of the situation, Mayor Chapman arose
in the carriage and formally welcomed the President on
behalf of the citizens.
President Harrison, speaking from the same carriage,
responded as follows:
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—I am glad to meet you all, and I
assure you I appreciate this magnificent demonstration. I must
congratulate you upon your fine institutions, and particularly your
streets, which, I believe, are the best in the country. I thank you
for this reception most heartily. I regret that your enthusiasm
and the vast size of this assembly has somewhat disconcerted the
programme marked out, but I can speak as well from here as from
the stand, which seems to be inaccessible. I return my sincere
thanks for your welcome and express the interest and gratification
I have felt this morning in riding through some of the streets of
your beautiful city. I thank you most sincerely for your friendliness
and bid you good-by. [Great cheering.]
Immediatelyon returning from his arduous trip to Sacramento
and Oakland the President attended a reception
in his honor tendered by members of the Union League at
their club-house. The affair was one of the most notable
of any in which the presidential guests participated during
their visit to the golden West, and was conducted
under the direction of the following committee: A. E.
Castle, Joseph S. Spear, Jr., F. S. Chadbourne, W. H.
Chamberlain, T. H. Minor, J. H. Hegler, Frank J. French,
J. T. Giesting, William Macdonald, J. S. Mumaugh, R. D.
Laidlaw, S. K. Thornton, W. D. Sanborn, Joseph Simonson,
J. M. Litchfield, and L. H. Clement.
The President entered upon the arm of Wendell Easton,
President of the Union League Club, followed by the first
lady of the land, escorted by Governor Markham. The
Reception Committee comprised: Senator Stanford, General
Dimond, M. H. de Young, Judge Estee, I. C. Stump,
W. C. Van Fleet, C. J. Bandmann, W. E. Dargie, N. P.
Chipman, Lewis Gerstle, F. A. Vail, Col. W. R. Shafter,
Mrs. Leland Stanford, Mrs. R. D. Laidlaw, Mrs. W. H.
Chamberlain, Mrs. Joseph S. Spear, Jr., Mrs. W. W. Morrow,
Mrs. F. L. Castle, Mrs. M. H. de Young, Mrs. N. P.
Chipman, Mrs. C. J. Bandmann, Miss Emma Spreckels,
Miss Thornton, Mrs. Wendell Easton, Mrs. S. W. Backus,
Mrs. G. H. Sanderson, Mrs. W. E. Dargie, Miss Stump,
Miss Reed, and others prominent in society.
After the long and brilliant column had passed before
the presidential line Samuel M. Shortridge stepped before
the President and in an eloquent address in behalf of the
Union League Club presented him with a fac-simile, in
gold, of the invitation issued to the reception.
General Harrison, in accepting the beautiful souvenir,
said:
California is full of ambuscades, not of a hostile sort, but with
all embarrassments that attend surprise. In a hasty drive this
afternoon, when I thought I was to visit Oakland, I was suddenly
drawn up in front of a college and asked to make an address, and
in a moment afterward before an asylum for the deaf, dumb, and
blind, the character of which I did not know until the carriage
stopped in front of it. All this taxes the ingenuity as your kindness
moves the heart of one who is making a hurried journey
through California. I do not need such souvenirs as this to keep
fresh in my heart this visit to your State. It will be pleasant,
however, to show to others who have not participated in this
enjoyment the record of a trip that has been very eventful and one
of perpetual sunshine and happiness. I do not think I could have
endured the labor and toil of travel unless I had been borne up by
the inspiriting and hearty good-will of your people. I do not know
what collapse is in store for me when it is withdrawn. I fear I
shall need a vigorous tonic to keep up to the high level of enjoyment
and inspiration which your kind treatment has given me.
I thank you for this pleasant social enjoyment and this souvenir
of it. [Applause.]
Sundayevening the President and his party, after
passing a restful day at the Palace Hotel, quietly took their
leave of San Francisco and repaired to their palatial train.
Mayor Sanderson and his secretary, Mr. Steppacher, Col.
Charles F. Crocker and Colonel Andrews, of the Reception
Committee, escorted the party to their train. The
President personally thanked these gentlemen for their
kind and unremitting attentions during their visit.
Shortly before the train resumed its long journey, at a
quarter past midnight, the President gave out the following
card of thanks to the people of California:
I desire, for myself and for the ladies of our party, to give an
expression of our thanks for many individual acts of courtesy,
which, but for the pressure upon our time, would have been
specially acknowledged. Friends who have been so kind will not,
I am sure, impute to us any lack of appreciation or intended[398]neglect. The very excess of their kindness has made any adequate,
and much more, any particular, return impossible. You will all
believe that there has been no purposed neglect of any locality or
individual. We leave you with all good wishes for the State of
California and all her people.
Mondaymorning, May 4, found the presidential train
rolling through Northern California. A short stop was
made at Tehama, where the President shook hands with
the crowd in the rain. Red Bluff, the county seat of Tehama
County, was reached at 8:30 o'clock, and several thousand
people greeted the President, among them D. D. Dodson
and Capt. J. T. Matlock, the latter an old army friend
who served in General Harrison's regiment.
On being presented to the assemblage by his former comrade
the President spoke as follows:
My Friends—It is very pleasant to meet here an old comrade of
the Seventieth Indiana Volunteers. Your fellow citizen, Captain
Matlock, who has spoken for you, commanded one of the companies
of my regiment, and is, therefore, a very old and very dear friend.
Once before in California I had a like surprise. The other day a
glee club began to sing a song that was familiar to me, and I said
to those standing about me. "Why, that song was written by a
lieutenant in my old regiment, and I have not heard it since the
war." Presently the leader of the glee club turned his face toward
me and I found he was the identical lieutenant and the composer
of the song, singing it for my benefit. All along I have met old
Indiana acquaintances, and I am glad to see them, whether they
were of my old command or from other regiments of the great war.
They all seem to be prosperous and happy. Captain Matlock was
about the same size during the war that he is now. I very well
remember, according to his own account, that at Resaca he undertook
to make a breastwork of some "down timber," but he found,
after looking about, that it was insufficient cover, and took a
standing tree. [Laughter.]
Seriously, my friends, you have a most beautiful State, capable
of promoting the comfort of your citizens in a very high degree,[399]and although already occupying a high place in the galaxy of
States, it will, I am sure, take a much higher one. It is pleasant
to see how the American spirit prevails among all your people, the
love for the flag and the Constitution, those settled and permanent
things that live whether men go or come. They came to us from
our fathers and will pass down to our children. You are blessed
with a genial climate and a most productive soil. I see you have
in this northern part of California what I have seen elsewhere—a
well-ordered community, with churches and school-houses, which
indicates that you are not giving all your thoughts to material
things, but thinking of those things that qualify the soul for the
hereafter. We have been treated to another surprise this morning
in the first shower we have seen in California. I congratulate you
that it rains here. May all blessings fall upon you, like the gentle
rain. [Cheers.]
AtRedding, Shasta County, the distinguished travellers
were welcomed by several hundred school children, marshalled
by William Jackson. Mayor Brigman and the
members of the City Council, with W. P. England, L. H.
Alexander, B. F. Roberts, Mrs. E. A. Reid, and other prominent
residents, participated in the reception. Judge C.
C. Bush, through whose exertions the visit was secured,
delivered an address of welcome and introduced the President,
who spoke as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—It is very pleasant, as we near the northern
line of California, after having traversed the valleys of the south,
and are soon to leave the State in which we have had so much
pleasurable intercourse with its people, to see here, as I have seen
elsewhere, multitudes of contented, prosperous, and happy people.
I am assured you are here a homogeneous people, all Americans,
all by birth or by free choice lovers of one flag and one Constitution.
It seems to me as I look into the faces of these California audiences
that life must be easier here than it is in the old States. I see
absolutely no evidences of want. Every one seems to be well
nourished. Your appearance gives evidence that the family board
is well supplied, and from the gladness on your faces it is evident
that in your social relations everything is quiet, orderly, and[400]hopeful. I thank you for your friendly demonstrations. I wish
it were possible for me to do more in exchange for all your great
kindness than simply to say thank you; but I do profoundly thank
you, and shall carry away from your State the very happiest
impressions and very pleasant memories. [Cheers.]
A briefstop was made at Dunsmuir, where the President
shook hands with and thanked the people for their
greeting, remarking that he was glad to find that even on
the hilltops of California they found something profitable
to do.
Sisson, at the foot of Mount Shasta, was reached at 3
o'clock; it was the last stopping-point in California, and
the entire population turned out in honor of the visitors.
The Committee of Reception was Asa Persons, Hugh B.
Andrews, Oliver E. Moors, T. J. Sullivan, Frank B. Moors,
and the veterans of Mount Shasta Post, G. A. R.
President Harrison, addressing the assemblage, said:
My Friends—I have been talking now over a trip of 6,000 miles
and feel pretty well talked out; but I can always say, as I say to
you now, that it is ever a very great pleasure to me to see these
kindly faces turned toward me. We have received in South California,
in their orange groves, a very hearty welcome, and it is
very pleasant to come now to this fine scenery among these snow-capped
mountains. I have no doubt that you find here in this
high altitude an inspiration for all good things. I thank you
again for your cordial greeting.
Thefirst stop in Oregon was at Ashland, at 8P.M., in
a drizzling rain. An escort committee from the Oregon
Legislature and the Portland Board of Trade, headed by
Hon. Joseph Simon, President of the Senate, met the Chief
Executive at this point. The local Reception Committee
comprised Mayor G. M. Grainger, Hon. J. M. McCall, D.[401]R. Mills, Dr. J. Hall, and Col. J. T. Bowditch, Judge
Advocate General O. N. G.
Responding to the greeting of the Legislative Committee
the President said:
Mr. Simon and Gentlemen of the Committee—I esteem it an honor
that the Legislature of the State of Oregon has taken this notice of
my visit, and I receive with pleasure this welcome you have
extended to me. I am very glad to greet you, and it will give me
pleasure to see you further before leaving the State.
The President then appeared on the platform, and was
presented to the citizens by the Mayor, and spoke briefly,
saying:
My Friends—This cordial welcome, under the infelicitous circumstances,
is very gratifying to us as we enter the great State of
Oregon. In the State of California we had sunshine, and it was
perhaps to be expected that the favorable weather conditions should
draw about our platform a large concourse of people, but you have
evidenced your interest in the Government and the flag and your
friendly interest in us by turning out on this inclement night to
bid us welcome to your State. I thank you most sincerely, and
wish for you and yours all good, and for your State a continued
career of development and prosperity.
ThePresident's visit to Medford at 10P.M.was acknowledged
by a general illumination. The veterans of
Chester A. Arthur Post, G. A. R., J. R. Erford, Commander,
and J. H. Faris, Adjutant, were outen masse.
Mayor G. W. Howard made a brief address and introduced
the President, who said:
Comrades and Fellow-citizens—It gives me great pleasure to see
you to-night, especially these old comrades, to whom I am glad to
give a comrade's greeting. I would have you think of me as a
comrade. I recall those army scenes which are fresh in your minds
as well as mine, the scenes of privation, suffering, and battle, and
I am glad to see that the old flag you took to the field and brought[402]home in honor is still held in honor among you. It is a beautiful
emblem of a great Government. We ought to teach our children
to love it and to regard it as a sacred thing, a thing for which
men have died and for which men will die. It symbolizes the
government of the States under one Constitution, for while you are
all Oregonians as I am an Indianian, and each has his pride in
State institutions and all that properly pertains to our State Government,
we have a larger and greater pride in the fact that we
are citizens of a Nation, of a Union of States, having a common
Constitution. [Cheers.]
It is this flag that represents us on the sea and in foreign countries,
it is under this flag that our navies sail and our armies
march. I thank you for this cordial greeting. I hope you have
found in this State comfortable homes, and that in the years that
remain to you God will follow you with those blessings which
your courage and patriotism and sacrifices have so well merited.
[Cheers.]
Thepresidential party arrived at the thriving city of
Albany, in the Willamette Valley, at 8 o'clock on the
morning of the 5th, and were received by 5,000 people.
Mayor J. L. Cowan headed the Committee of Reception,
consisting of J. W. Cusick, Judge L. Flinn, W. C. Tweedale,
J. R. Whitney, L. E. Blain, M. Sternberg, G. F.
Simpson, Dr. D. M. Jones, A. Hackleman, and Thomas
Monteith. McPherson Post, G. A. R., J. F. Whiting,
Commander, and Company F, O. N. G., Capt. Geo. E.
Chamberlain, together with 200 students from the State
Agricultural College at Corvallis, under Prof. J. D.
Letcher, participated in the reception. Mayor Cowan
delivered the address of welcome.
My Fellow-citizens—It gives me great pleasure to see you, and to
have the testimony of your presence here this wet morning to the
interest you take in this little party of strangers who are pausing
only for a moment with you. We do not need any assurance, as
we look over an American audience like this, that upon some[403]things, at least, we are of one mind. One of these things is that
we have a Union indissoluble; that we have a flag we all honor,
and that shall suffer no dishonor from any quarter. While I regret
the inclemency of the morning, I have been thinking that after all
there was a sort of instructive moral force in the uncertainty of
the weather, which our friends in Southern California do not
enjoy. How can a boy or young woman be well trained in self-denial
and resignation who does not know what it is to have a
picnic or picnic dress spoiled by a shower, or some fishing excursion
by a storm? I thank you for this welcome. [Cheers.]
Salem, the capital of Oregon, was reached at 9A.M.The local militia and several thousand citizens assembled
to greet the President, including Governor Pennoyer,
Mayor P. H. D'Arcy, Charles Morris, E. M. Waite, A.
N. Gilbert, William Brown, and other prominent citizens;
also, the Legislative Reception Committee, headed by
Hon. Joseph Simon, President of the Senate, and Hon.
T. T. Geer, Speaker of the House.En routefrom the
depot to the State House thousands of people lined the
sidewalks and several hundred school children, bearing
flags, waved a cordial greeting. Arriving at the Assembly
Chamber, Mayor D'Arcy presided and welcomed the
President in the name of the city; he was followed by
Governor Pennoyer, who extended "a generous, heartfelt
welcome on behalf of the people of Oregon."
With marked earnestness President Harrison responded
as follows:
Governor Pennoyer, Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—It is very
pleasant to be assured by these kindly words which have been
spoken by the Governor of this State and by the chief officer of
this municipality that we are welcome to the State of Oregon and
to the city of Salem. I find here, as I found elsewhere, that these
cordial words of welcome are repeated with increased emphasis by
the kindly faces of those who assemble to greet us. I am glad that
here as elsewhere we look into the faces of happy, prosperous, con[404]tented,
liberty-loving, patriotic American citizens. Our birthright,
the wise anticipation of those who framed our Government, our
national and constitutional organization, which has repeated itself
in all the States of the Union, this wholesome and just division
of power between the three great independent, co-ordinate branches
of the Government—the executive, the legislative, and the judicial—has
already demonstrated that what seems to the nations of
Europe to be a complicated and jangling system produces in fact
the most perfect harmony, and the most complete and satisfactory
organization for social order and for national strength.
We stand here to-day in one of these halls set apart to the law-making
body of your State. Those who assemble here are chosen
by your suffrages. They come here as representatives to enact into
laws those views of public questions which have met the sanction
of the majority of your people, expressed in an orderly and honest
way at the ballot-box. I hope it may be always found to be true
of Oregon that your legislative body is a representative body; that
coming from the people, its service is consecrated to the people,
and the purpose of its creation is attained by giving to the well-ordered
and well-disposed the largest liberty, by curbing, by
wholesome laws, the ill-disposed and the lawless, and providing
by economical methods for the public needs. The judiciary, that
comes next in our system, to interpret and apply the public statutes,
has been in our country a safe refuge for all who are
oppressed. It is greatly to our credit as a Nation that with rare
exceptions those who have worn the judicial ermine in the highest
tribunals of the country, and notably in the Supreme Court of the
United States, have continued to retain the confidence of the people
of the whole country. The duty of the Executive is to administer
the law; the military power is lodged with him under
constitutional limitations. He does not frame statutes, though in
most States, and under our national Government, a veto power is
lodged in him with a view to secure reconsideration of any particular
measure.
But a public executive officer has one plain duty: it is to enforce
the law with kindness and forbearance, but with promptness and
inexorable decision. He may not choose what laws he will enforce
any more than the citizen may choose what laws he will obey.
We have here but one king: it is the law, passed by those constitutional
methods which are necessary to make it binding upon the
people, and to that king all men must bow. It is my great pleasure
to find so generally everywhere a disposition to obey the law.
I have but one message for the North and for the South, for the[405]East and the West, as I journey through this land. It is to hold
up the law, and to say everywhere that every man owes allegiance
to it, and that all law-breakers must be left to the deliberate and
safe judgment of an established tribunal. You are justly proud of
your great State. Its capabilities are enormous; its adaptation to
comfortable life is peculiar and fine. The years will bring you
increased population and increased wealth. I hope they will bring
with it, marching in this stately progress of material things, those
finer things—piety, pure homes, and orderly communities. But
above all this State pride, over all our rejoicings in the advantages
which are about us in our respective States, we look with greater
pride to that great arch of government that unites these States and
makes of them all one great Union. But, my fellow-citizens, the
difficulties that I see interposed between us and the train which is
scheduled to depart very soon warn me to bring these remarks to a
speedy close. I beg again, most profoundly, to thank you for this
evidence of your respect, this evidence of your love for the institutions
of our common country. [Cheers.]
AtChemawa, the seat of an Indian training-school, the
President reviewed the pupils and, in response to calls for
a speech, addressed them as follows:
My Young Friends—It gives me great pleasure to stop for a
moment to see these evidences of the good work the Government is
doing for you and the good work you are doing for yourselves.
All the purposes of the Government toward you and your people
are benevolent and friendly. It is our wish that you may become
such people as your neighbors are—industrious, kindly, peaceful,
and self-respecting. Everything that I can do to promote this end
will be gladly done. I hope your instructors and all those who
are brought close to you will in every way express and carry out
the benevolent and kindly intentions of the Government.
A cordialgreeting was accorded the President at Oregon
City by the pioneers and army veterans. The Committee
of Reception was Hon. J. T. Apperson, Hon. H.
E. Cross, Hon. T. W. Sullivan, and T. Rands. From
beneath a triumphal floral arch near the station the Mayor
delivered a welcoming address, closing with three cheers.
Fellow-citizens—This is a very pleasant morning reception. The
heartiness and genuineness of your greeting is unmistakable, and
I beg to assure you that we most heartily appreciate and return
your kindly thoughts. You have here a most important State, one
of those bordering on the Pacific, completing the autonomy of our
great country, and giving us a seaboard on the Pacific as well as
upon the Atlantic which was essential to our completeness and
separateness as a people. The interesting story of the early settlement
of Oregon, of the international contest which for some time
threatened international war, is fresh in the minds of these pioneers,
and I am sure is taught to these children of your public
schools. The work of those who set up the American flag here,
and who secured to us this fertile region, is worthy of mention
and of honorable commemoration by this generation, which is
entering into their labors. Your State has added another to that
succession of kindly greetings which began when we left the national
capital. We have come out of the land of irrigation and
roses into this land where the Lord takes care of the crops; and
this dependence upon the seasons is not without its instructive and
moral influences. Nature seems to have made a fresh, white toilet
for us as we have come down the banks of this beautiful river. To
the pioneers, to those who have entered in with less labor to the
inheritance left to them, to these children and to these comrades
of the Grand Army, I give my most hearty greeting.
Tuesday, at noon, found the President and his party at
Portland, where they received an enthusiastic greeting.
Ten thousand people were present, notwithstanding the
rainy weather. The President was welcomed at the station
by Mayor Van B. De Lashmutt and wife, Chief-Justice
R. S. Strahan, Supreme Judges W. P. Lord and
R. S. Bean, Federal Judge M. P. Deady, Hon. Joseph
Simon, President of the Senate; Hon. T. T. Geer, Speaker
of the House; ex-Atty.-Gen. Geo. H. Williams, Hon. T.
F. Osborn, President Chamber of Commerce; Hon. E.
B. McElroy, Gen. O. Summers, Gen. Wm. Kapus, Hon.
M. C. George, Hon. Henry Failing, Hon. C. A. Dolph,
Hon. P. L. Willis, Hon. F. V. Drake, Hon. G. L. Story,
Hon. J. C. Moreland, Hon. J. C. Fullerton, Hon. H. B.
Miller, Philip Metschan, and Mrs. Rosa F. Burrell; also
W. F. Matlock, J. H. McClung, and S. B. Eakin, Jr., of
Eugene City.
The parade was a brilliant affair. The veterans of the
several G. A. R. posts acted as the guard of honor. The
great column was directed by Col. T. M. Anderson, U. S.
A., aided by O. F. Paxton, Chief of Staff; C. M. Idleman,
D. S. Tuthill, Dr. Henry E. Jones, J. G. Woodworth,
R. W. Mitchell, F. K. Arnold, L. A. Lewis, E.
C. Michenor, C. R. Holcomb, Charles E. Dodd, J. C.
Courtney, J. A. Sladden, John Gwilt, G. A. Harding,
Gen. C. S. Wright, Gen. C. P. Holloway, Col. R. S.
Greenleaf, Col. D. H. Turner, N. S. Pierce, G. E. Caukin,
A. E. Borthwick, Col. H. H. Northup, Col. R. T. Chamberlain,
G. H. Durham, H. C. Allen, E. A. Weed, M. J.
Morse, Geo. C. Sears, F. R. Neal, Dr. W. H. Saylor, Capt.
J. E. Lombard, C. E. Dubois, H. P. Wilson, and M. G.
Steffen.
Conspicuous in the procession were the following staff[408]officers of the Department of the Columbia: Maj. C. A.
Wikoff, Maj. W. H. Nash, Maj. J. C. Muhlenberg, Maj.
J. G. C. Lee, and Captains C. McClure and C. H. Ingalls;
also Hon. R. P. Earhart, Geo. A. Steel, F. P. Mays, E.
T. Hatch, J. T. Stewart, Mayor of East Portland; D. M.
McLauchlin, Mayor of Albina; A. M. Crawford, of Roseburg,
and the French, Russian, and Danish vice-consuls.
In the evening five companies of the First Regiment, O.
N. G., commanded by Col. Charles F. Beebe, escorted the
President, Secretary Rusk, and Postmaster-General Wanamaker
to the Exposition Building, where an audience of
15,000 greeted them. Mayor De Lashmutt delivered an
eloquent address of welcome.
President Harrison was tendered an ovation as he arose
to respond. He said:
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—No more brilliant or inspiring
scene than this has been presented to our eyes in this wonderful
series of receptions which have been extended to us on our journey.
You have been filled with regret to-day that your weeping skies
did not present to us the fair spectacle which you had hoped; and
yet this very discouragement has but added to the glory of this
magnificent reception. [Cheers.] To stand in the bright sunshine
of a genial day and to wave a welcome is not so strong a proof
of the affectionate interest of a people as you have given to-day
standing in this down-pouring rain [Cheers.] In the presence
of a multitude like this, in a scene made brilliant by these decorations,
I stand inadequate to any suitable expression of the gratitude
that fills my heart. [Cheers.]
I was quite inclined to stand by the Superintendent of the Census
in the count which he made of the States; but I am afraid if I
had witnessed this scene, pending your application for a recount,
that it would have been granted. [Laughter and great cheering.]
I am sorry that it could not have been made as the people turned
out to give us this welcome; I am sure no one would have been
missed. [Laughter and cheers.]
This State is interesting in its history. The establishment of the
authority of the United States over this region was an important
event in our national history. The possession of the Columbia and
of Puget Sound was essential to the completeness and the roundness
of our empire. We have here in this belt of States, reaching from[409]the Gulf of California to the Straits of Fuca, a magnificent possession
which we could not have dispensed with at all. [Cheers.]
The remoteness of Oregon from the older settled States, the peril
and privation which attended the steps of the pioneer as he came
hither, delayed the development of this great country. You are
now but beginning to realize the advantage of closer and easier
communications. You are but now beginning to receive from an
impartial and beneficent Government that attention which you
well deserve. [Cheers.]
That this river of yours should be made safe and deep, so that
waiting commerce may come without obstruction to your wharf,
is to be desired. [Cheers.] It should receive those appropriations
which are necessary to make the work accomplish the purpose in
view. [Cheers.] I believe that you may anticipate a largely
increased commerce. Looking out as you do toward the regions
across the Pacific, it would be but natural that this important
centre should draw from them and exchange with them a great
and increasing commerce. [Cheers.] I am in entire sympathy
with the suggestion of the Mayor that it is important that this
commerce should be carried in American ships. [Cheers.] A few
days ago, when I sailed in the harbor of San Francisco, I saw three
great deep water ships come into that port. One carried the flag
of Hawaii and two the English flag. None bore at the masthead
the Stars and Stripes. I believe it is the duty of the national Government
to take such steps as will restore the American merchant
marine. [Cheers.] Why shall we not have our share in the great
commerce of the world? I cannot but believe—and such inspiring
presences as this but kindle and confirm my belief—that we are
come to a time when this Nation should look to the future and
step forward bravely and courageously in new lines of enterprise.
[Cheers.]
The Nicaragua Canal should be completed. [Cheers.] Our harbors
should have adequate defence. [Cheers.] We should have
upon the sea a navy of first-class ships. [Cheers.] We are here in
the most kindly relations to these South American and Central
American countries. We have been content that Europe should do
the commerce of these nations. We have not availed ourselves of
the advantages of neighborhood and of friendly kindred republican
institutions to develop our commerce with those people. We have,
fortunately, as a result of the great conference of American nations,
set on foot measures that I confidently hope will bring to us
speedily our just share of this great commerce. [Cheers.]
I am glad to know that we are here to-night as American citi[410]zens,
lovers of the one flag and the one Constitution. [Enthusiastic
cheering.] Proud of Oregon! Yes, you may well be proud of Oregon.
But, my countrymen, above all, crowning all, greater than
all, is our American citizenship. [Great cheering.] What would
one of these States be without the other? What is it that gives us
prestige abroad and power at home? It is that we have formed a
government of the people, that we have one flag and speak with
one voice to all the nations of the earth. [Enthusiastic cheering.]
I hope that narrow sentiment that regards the authority of the
United States or its officers as alien or strange has once and forever
been extinguished in this land of ours. [Great cheering.] My
countrymen, I am profoundly grateful for this magnificent demonstration.
I accept it as a tribute to your institutions and to your
country. No man is worthy of it; he can only return for it a fresh
consecration of himself to the duties of public office and private
citizenship. [Great cheering.] Again I assure you that you have
given us to-day what is to my mind, under the conditions, taking
into account the population of your city, the most splendid demonstration
we have seen on the whole journey. [Prolonged and
enthusiastic cheering.]
At the conclusion of the President's address the great
assemblage began calling for Postmaster-General Wanamaker.
After a few moments' hesitation the distinguished
Philadelphian came forward and was the recipient of an
ovation. He said:
Fellow-countrymen—I am proud to be present at this magnificent
demonstration. I am especially pleased at the address the President
has delivered. Instead of having it printed for Congress he
has reserved it for the people of Oregon, and personally brought
you his message. [Cheers.] What you have done to-day has certainly
touched his heart; and no man would be human who did
not feel moved at this wonderful welcome that you have prepared
for your President. I think you had him in mind all the time,
and wanted to show that your loyalty and affection would wash.
[Laughter and cheers.]
I am proud to be an American citizen, and to see how the people
rally round the flag and the chief standard-bearer, the President
of the United States. [Cheers.] From the day he started from
home his pathway has been strewn with garlands, and many times
our way has lain through a path knee-deep with flowers. They
have been scattered all the way from Virginia to Oregon; but[411]above all is the hearty, loving, loyal welcome that has been extended
to us at every stop we have made. On the boundary of
your State, at the little town of Salem [laughter], I think, a welcome
was spoken most beautifully and heartily by your Governor.
[Tremendous cheering.] But you have about 60,000 majority over
Salem. [Cheers.]
How can any one thank you for it except to go back to Washington
and do the very best in his power for your good and the
good of the whole people? Some of us Eastern people are doing
now what Columbus did 400 years ago—we are discovering America.
[Cheers.] If what you have done for us here to-night and
what you have done to-day is a true index to your energy and
determination, what is there you will not grasp and do when you
get at it? [Cheers.] I am sure you will find one opportunity in
aiding in the postal telegraph. We are going to have penny postage
all the country over. [Cheers.] But before that time comes let us
go out into the new States as the villages and hamlets build up
and let us give them the mail with the freest intercourse and the
fullest facility. I will now make way for the next man, for the
largest Secretary of all is still to come. [Cheers and laughter.]
Secretary Rusk also received a hearty welcome. His
remarks about the Weather Bureau had a peculiar zest because
of the presence of Gen. A. W. Greely, chief signal
officer. He said:
Ladies and Gentlemen—It is with great pleasure that I meet you
here to-night. I would not have a heart if I did not say that I
have been touched by this demonstration and the demonstration
on your streets to-day. [Cheers.] I account for this in a different
way from those who have preceded me. I saw on your
streets to-day more ladies than I saw in any city which we have
visited since we left Washington. And the beautiful children!
While we have had more flowers in other States, we have not
met more beautiful women and lovely children. I tell you, in
order to raise anything sweetly and beautifully you must have
rain. [Cheers.] Congress has passed a law providing that the
Weather Bureau be turned over to me July 1, and if I can control
the weather and another President comes here I will see that
you have a flood. [Cheers and laughter.] I will endeavor, however,
after July 1 to give you thirteen months' rain every year.
I have been touched to the heart in many ways since I came to
your beautiful city. I have met friends who were my boyhood's
friends away back in Wisconsin, and comrades who served with[412]me in battle and in camp. [Cheers.] I would fail to do my duty
if I did not say that I am glad to see you all. God bless them and
may the future deal kindly with you all. [Great cheering.]
Earlyon the morning of the 6th the presidential train
crossed the State line and entered the new State of Washington,
stopping a moment at Chehalis, and reaching Centralia
at 7 o'clock. Here the President was received with
a national salute, and notwithstanding the rain several
thousand people were present. Mayor D. B. Rees and the
following prominent residents welcomed the Chief Magistrate:
J. H. Corwin, H. J. Miller, W. H. Bachtall, H. L.
Meade, Geo. Miller, E. R. Butherworth, Charles Johnson,
Henry Shield, N. B. Kelsey, A. J. Wright, and Geo. H.
Ellsbury.
My Fellow-citizens—It is very kind of you to turn out so early in
the morning. I can count among my pleasantest experiences in
the Northwest this very early rising. I am a good deal of a Daniel
Webster as to early risings. [Laughter.] It gives me great pleasure
to notice the evidence of increased population as contrasted
with what I saw six years ago as I passed through this country. I
was so unfortunate then as to find it enveloped in smoke, so that
the mountain tops were invisible. I am afraid we are to have this
experience repeated on this visit on account of the fog. I suppose
this is because the beauties of your country are so great that they
have to be shaded to the eyes of a stranger. Seriously, however,
you have a great commonwealth. I do not doubt that your future
is to be one of great development and great increase in population,
and that you are to found here a very contented, prosperous, and
happy people. Fortunately you have a capacity for great agricultural
development after you have cleared away the forests; and that,
after all, is the permanent foundation of every American city. It
is well enough to have trees on the land and mines in the earth;
but trees will be cut down and mines be dug out, and the only
thing that lasts is good soil in the hands of good husbandmen. I
thank you most sincerely. [Cheers.]
Tenthousand cheers greeted the arrival of the President
at Tacoma Wednesday morning. Gov. Elisha P.
Ferry, Mayor Geo. B. Kandle, and Judge Wm. H. Calkins,
at the head of the following Committee of Reception, met
the party: Gen. John W. Sprague, Samuel Collyer, Colonel
Garretson, Judge Allyn, Hon. M. Hill, Mrs. Frank
Allyn, W. D. Tyler, Mrs. Derrickson, Thomas Carroll,
Dr. Munson, Judge John Beverly, Judge Applegate, H. C.
Wallace, Senator John B. Allen and wife, Mrs. Galusha
Parsons, Charles Hale, George Reed, Charles Catlin, S.
C. Slaughter, Thomas Sloane, L. E. Post, Nelson Bennett,
F. F. Jacobs, I. W. Anderson, A. C. Mason, C. W. Griggs,
G. W. Holmes, E. M. Hunt, John D. Hills, L. R. Manning,
Hon. Thomas Carroll, Col. Charles Reichenbach,
Atty.-Gen. Jones, State Treasurer Lindsley, J. D. Hogue,
C. B. Zabriskie, and Fred T. Taylor.
The decorations were upon an elaborate scale. Chief
among the attractions of this order were five mammoth
arches spanning Pacific Avenue, constructed from products
typifying the principal industries of the State, to wit: the
timber arch, coal arch, iron arch, grain arch, and shingle
arch. Notwithstanding the rain the parade, under Chief
Marshal C. W. Griggs, was a brilliant success.
A noteworthy incident was the special reception tendered
to Mrs. Harrison and the other ladies of the presidential
party by the ladies of Tacoma at the Opera House. Fully
5,000 paid their respects. Mrs. S. C. Slaughter, on behalf
of the ladies of Tacoma, presented to Mrs. Harrison a
beautiful painting of Mt. Tacoma by the artist Rollins.
Accompanying the picture was an illustrated copy of Mrs.
Bernice E. Wewell's poem on "Mt. Tacoma," also a gold
engraved spoon, the latter for the President's grandson.
In acknowledging the receipt of these souvenirs Mrs. Har[414]rison
made perhaps her first public speech on the trip.
She said:
Ladies—I cannot thank you enough for all your kindness. I
shall take your gifts home and treasure them all my life as mementos
of a most enjoyable visit to your beautiful city. [Applause.]
After the review of the procession Governor Ferry, in
the presence of many thousands, formally welcomed President
Harrison to the State of Washington. The distinguished
veteran General Sprague made the address on
behalf of the citizens of Tacoma.
My Fellow-citizens—I feel that it would be cruel to prolong this
exposure which you are enduring in the inclement weather of the
day. I visited your city and the region of Puget Sound six years
ago. I found this country then enveloped in smoke, so that these
grand mountain-tops, of which mention has been made in the
address of welcome, were hidden from our view. I come again
and the smoke is replaced by fog, and we are still, I suppose, to
take the existence of these snow-clad peaks on faith. [Laughter
and applause.] I don't know but there is a benevolent provision
for your comfort in the fact that this magnificent scenery, this
unmatched body of water are frequently hidden from the eye of
the traveller. If every one who journeys hither could see it all
everybody would want to live here, and there wouldn't be room.
[Laughter and cheers.] I congratulate you, citizens of Tacoma,
upon the magnificent, almost magical, transformation which has
been wrought here in these six years since I first saw your city.
It has been amazing: it is a tribute to the energy and the enterprise
and courage of your people that will endure and increase and
attract in a yet higher degree the attention of the whole country.
A harbor like this, so safe and commodious and deep, upon
Puget Sound, should be made to bear a commerce that is but yet
in its infancy. I would like to see the prows of some of these
great steamship lines entering your ports and carrying the American
flag at the masthead. [Cheers.] I believe we have come to
the time in our development as a people when we must step forward
with bold progress, or we will lose the advantage we have
already attained. We have within ourselves the resources, and a
market of which the world is envious. We have been content, in
the years gone by, to allow other nations to do the carrying trade[415]of the world. We have been content to see the markets of these
American republics lying south of us mastered and controlled by
European nations. I think the period of discontent with these
things has now come to our people, and I believe the time is auspicious
for the enlargement of our commerce with these friendly
republics lying to the south of us. I believe the time is propitious
for re-establishing upon the sea the American merchant marine,
that shall do its share of the carrying trade of the world.
[Applause.]
My friends, I desire to again express to you my regret that to
give us this magnificent welcome, under circumstances so inauspicious,
you have been exposed to so much wet. I especially
regretted, as I passed those long lines of dear school children, that
they should have been exposed in order to do us honor. I will not
detain you longer. For your city, for this magnificent young State
that we have received into the great sisterhood of the Union, of
which you are a glorious part, we give our aspirations, our prayers,
and our best endeavors. [Applause.]
On Steamer "City of Seattle," Puget Sound.
At 11:30A.M.the President and his party left Tacoma,
embarking on the steamerCity of Seattlefor the Queen
City of the Northwest. There was a great outpouring at
Tacoma to witness the departure, and the presidential convoy
was escorted down the sound by all the steamers in
the bay. As the President came aboard he was met by
Mayor and Mrs. Harry White at the head of the following
committee of prominent citizens of Seattle: Jacob
Furth, John H. McGraw, A. W. Bash, Postmaster Griffith
Davies, A. M. Brookes, A. A. Denny, L. S. J. Hunt, W.
E. Bailey, F. J. Grant, President and Mrs. G. W. Hall,
President and Mrs. R. W. Jones, Maj. J. R. Hayden, Mr.
and Mrs. E. Brainerd, Mrs. George H. Heilbron, Mrs. J.
C. Haines, Mrs. R. C. Washburn, Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Holman,
Mrs. E. L. Terry, Mrs. J. F. McNaught, Mrs. A. B.
Stewart, Mrs. James A. Panting, Mrs. H. F. Jackson and
daughter, Mrs. Charles F. Jackson, Mr. and Mrs. W. R.
Bentley, Miss Ina Jameson, Miss Annie Longfellow, Miss
Millie Longfellow, Walter F. Cushing, Col. G. G. Lyon,[416]Dr. Young, D. B. Ward, Colonel Langley, J. T. Ronald,
John Wiley, C. M. Ogden, Colonel Street, Judge Roger S.
Greene, Mr. John Collins, Capt. W. A. Snyder, ex-Atty.-Gen.
J. B. Metcalfe, Lieut. A. B. Wyckoff, and Dr. Whyte
Fredrick.
When the convoy and her noisy consorts had passed out
of Commencement Bay and entered Puget Sound the Reception
Committee assembled on deck, and Mayor White
in an address cordially welcomed the President, who, in
response, said:
Mr. Mayor—I accept with great gratification these words of
welcome on behalf of the citizens of Seattle. It will give me great
pleasure to contrast my observations of your State in 1885 with
what I shall see to-day. I have not lost track of the progress of
Seattle, but have, through friends, been advised of the marvellous
development which you have made, and how you have repeated in
the substantial character of your edifices the story of the Chicago
fire, coming as you have out of what seemed a disaster with
increased magnificence, and finding in it really an advantage. I
will defer until I am in the presence of your people any further
acknowledgment of your courtesies, and will now only thank you,
as you are repeating here what we have observed on our whole
trip, namely, the unification of all our people and the absolute
oneness of sentiment in devotion to our institutions and the flag.
Thesteamer bearing the presidential party, followed by
a great flotilla that had come out to greet them, arrived
at Seattle at 1:30P.M., and fully 40,000 people witnessed
the disembarking. The city was profusely decorated.
On Pioneer Place stood a triumphal arch bearing the ensigns
of all nations. Ranged at its entrance were the Sons
of Veterans in uniform and 75 school-girls. As the President's
carriage entered the great arch the choir-girls greeted
him with a song of welcome, composed for the occasion
by Prof. L. A. Darling. Near the arch, on a platform,[417]sat the shrivelled form of Angeline, daughter of Chief
Seattle, the last of the race of royal barbarians who once
ruled in the bays and forests of the sound. She was an
object of great interest to the President and his party.
After visiting Lake Washington on the cable cars the
President was escorted to the University campus by
Stevens, Miller, and Cushing posts, G. A. R., M. M.
Holmes and J. St. Clair, commanders. Thirty thousand
people were assembled on the campus; officials were present
from every part of the State, also from British Columbia.
Opposite the speakers' stand were 2,000 school
children, each waving a flag. Governor Ferry, Senator
John B. Allen, Hon. John H. McGraw, Jacob Furth, and
numerous other prominent men were on the platform with
the President, Secretary Rusk, and Mr. Wanamaker.
Rev. G. A. Tewksbury pronounced the invocation. Judge
Thomas Burke then delivered the welcoming address on
behalf of the citizens.
Judge Burke and Fellow-citizens—I am sure you have too much
kindness in your heart to ask me to make an address to you this
afternoon. This chilly air, this drizzling rain, the long exposure
during the day which you and these precious children have
suffered, warn me, on your account as well as my own, that I
should say but a few words in recognition of this magnificent welcome.
Six years ago I visited your beautiful city, and the distinguished
gentleman who has been your spokesman to-day was one
of a hospitable committee that pointed out to me the beauties of
this location. You were then largely a prospective city. Some
substantial and promising improvements had been begun, but it
was a period of expectancy rather than of realization. I am glad
to come to-day and to see how fully and perfectly the large expectations
then entertained by your enterprising people have been
realized. It is a matter of amazement to look upon these towering
substantial granite and iron structures in which the great business
of your city is transacted. That disaster, as it seemed to you,
which swept away a large portion of the business part of your
city was like the afflictions that come to the saints, a blessing in
disguise. [Cheers.] You have done what Chicago did. You have[418]improved the disaster by rearing structures and completing edifices
that were unthought of before. Those who were not enterprising
or liberal have been compelled to be liberal and enterprising in
order that they might realize rents for their property made vacant
by fire. [Cheers.]
I fully appreciate the importance of this great body of water
upon which your city is situated. This sound, this inland sea,
must be in the future the highway, theentrepot, of a great commerce.
I do most sincerely believe that we are entering now upon
a new development that will put the American flag upon the seas
and bring to our ports in American bottoms a largely increased
share of the commerce of the world. [Cheers.] As I have said in
other places, for one I am thoroughly discontented with the present
condition of things. We may differ as to methods, but I believe
the great patriotic heart of our people is stirred, and that they are
bent upon recovering that share of the world's commerce which
we once happily enjoyed. Your demonstration to day under these
unfavorable environments has been most creditable to your city.
We have certainly seen nothing in a journey characterized by
great demonstrations to surpass this magnificent scene. [Cheers.]
I realize what your spokesman has said, that in all this there is a
patriotic expression of the love of our people for the flag and for
the Constitution. [Cheers.] And now, my friends, thanking you
for all you have done for me, humbly confessing my inability to
repay you, pledging to you my best efforts to promote the good of
all our people, and that I will have a watchful observation of the
needs of your State, of your harbors, for defence, improvement,
and security, I bid you good by. [Cheers.]
After the President's address an effort was made to present
the veterans individually, but the inclement weather
forbade it. Turning to those about him President Harrison
said:
I leave you very reluctantly, and I shall always be sorry that my
time was so limited here that I could not do justice to your hospitality.
[Great cheering.]
At 5 o'clock the party boarded their train, but a great
crowd had assembled and called repeatedly for the President,
who responded and said:
I can only thank you once more; you have given me a royal
welcome, and I carry away with me the most grateful memory of[419]your kindness. I was up until past midnight last night, making
a speech, and had to be up at 6 o'clock this morning to speak to
some friends in Oregon. I leave you with the best wishes for your
city and the State. [Enthusiastic cheers.]
As the President concluded there were loud calls for
Postmaster-General Wanamaker, who waved his hand
toward the children and said:
The reasons given by the President for not making a speech certainly
apply to those who are in your programme to follow him.
I cannot, however, leave the platform without thanking you for
that share of the welcome that falls to us who attended. There is
a chill in the air, but there is no lack of warmth in the cordial
greeting that you have given to us who, though we felt ourselves
to be strangers among you, have found ourselves to be among
friends. I have been trying to find out since the census report
was announced what the reason was that Philadelphia had fallen
behind. [Laughter and applause.] It is all very plain to me now.
This city set on a hill I shall put down in my book as Philadelphia
Junior. [Applause.] You have the family likeness. I recognize
some of you by name, and I do not wonder that you have settled
in this beautiful spot, so rich in its resources, where you discovered
everything that we have in Pennsylvania except one thing,
and I expect you will find that before long, and I am sure that I
hope that you will find the anthracite coal stored away somewhere
in your hills. I know if you undertake to find it you will do it.
[Applause.] You need no better illustration than the choir over
yonder, that could not be stopped even to allow the President to
speak. [Applause and laughter.] I shall carry away from here a
story that I am afraid they will call a California story, but I will
get your Mayor to give me a certificate that I was perfectly sober—that
there was nothing but water. [Applause and laughter.] And
I shall try to recommend what I have seen in this wild West,
where people have their splendid schools, their many churches,
their refined homes, and where there is such a hearty welcome for
all that come in their midst. For my part of the work at Washington
I have already given you evidence that the Post-office
Department was thinking of the Pacific coast. I shall do the best
that I can as a business man for this splendid business people that
you have in your city and for the many more that are to come;
that all the facilities of the mail—quickening it, increasing it—shall
be given to you; that you shall not say that your Government
does not give you all the assistance in building up your great[420]enterprises and swelling the prosperity of all this coast. I say
good-by to you and give you a heart full of good wishes. [Continued
applause.]
Itwas 10P.M.when the train stopped at Puyallup,
where a goodly crowd awaited the visitors. The President
shook hands with several score, and in response to
calls for a speech said:
My Fellow-citizens—I am very glad to see you to-night, but I
am sure you will excuse me from speaking when you remember
that I have been out in the rain all day at Tacoma and Seattle,
and have had to talk several times. I am glad to see you, and
appreciate the friendly interest you manifest in coming out here
to-night in such great numbers to greet us with such kindliness.
I have known for a long time of the great hop industry of this
region, and I am glad to know that it has proven profitable. The
question of the Puyallup reservation was one of the last which was
brought officially to my attention before leaving, and I expect it
will be one of the first I shall take up on my return. Good-night
and good-by.
A greatcrowd greeted the President with cannon and
bonfires on his arrival at Chehalis at 10:30 at night. The
Committee of Reception consisted of Mayor Milet, who
delivered an address of welcome; Judge Ashman, an old
comrade of the President's at Resaca; and J. F. Sachs, an
early pioneer, who presented the President a native hawthorn
cane.
Responding to greetings the President said:
My Friends—I am very much obliged to you for this midnight
reception. We passed you this morning without stopping, and
regretted it when we saw the number who had collected here. We
gladly yielded to your request to stop to-night in order to show
our appreciation of your kindness. It is very pleasant for me to
see those people who have no interest in politics except for good
government. [Cheers.]
Thefirst stop on the morning of the 7th was at Cascade
Locks, where several hundred people gave an early
morning greeting to the President, who responded briefly,
saying:
My Friends—I am very much obliged to you for your kindly
greeting, and, as we stop only a few moments, I can only express
my sincere thanks for your presence.
AtHood River Station the President shook hands with
a number and addressed the gathering as follows:
My Friends—It is very pleasant to see you this morning, and to
come out into the sunshine after two or three days of chilly rain.
I have been talking so much, and so much in the dampness, that
my voice is not very good; but my heart is always fresh and open
to these receptions. I thank you very sincerely for your friendliness
and wish for you all, and especially for these little ones,
every happiness in life. [Cheers.]
Aftertraversing the famous gorge of the Columbia
River the presidential train at 11 o'clock emerged within
view of the city of The Dalles, where an enthusiastic welcome
was extended the Chief Executive. The Committee
of Reception consisted of Mayor Moody, D. M. French,
Dr. William Shackelford, J. A. Varney, R. F. Gibson,
Robert Mays, H. M. Beall, John McCaul, J. P. McInerry,
M. T. Nolan, George Ruch, and the following prominent
ladies of the city: Mrs. T. S. Lang, Mrs. N. B. Sinnott,
Mrs. A. M. Williams, Mrs E. M. Wilson, Mrs. S. French,
Mrs. S. Brooks, Mrs. Geo. Liebe, Mrs. Charles Hilton, and[422]Mrs. J. Patterson. Many old soldiers and a large number
of school children were present.
Mayor Moody, in behalf of the city, welcomed the President,
who responded as follows:
My Friends—I have spoken at all times of the night and all hours
of the day, and under conditions much less auspicious than those
around us this morning. We have here a bright sunshine and a
bracing air, and everything in nature adds to the gladness of this
demonstration which you have made in our honor. I most sincerely
thank you for this evidence of your friendliness. I assure
you that it is very pleasant, and I cannot but believe that it is very
useful for those who are charged with public duties at Washington
occasionally to move about a little and look into the faces of the
plain, patriotic people of the country. Most of the people who
come to see me at Washington want something, and as the provision
made by law is not adequate to meet all these wants there
is very apt to be a great deal of discontent; but when we get out
among the great masses of the people, among those who are doing
the work of the farm, of the shop, and of the office, who have a
patriotic pride in their country and its institutions, and are kindly
disposed, charitable in their judgments, and who have no other
interests than that the laws shall be faithfully executed and the
whole interest of the people faithfully looked after, we find great
refreshment in their presence. I am sure we have such an audience
here this morning. You will not expect of any officer that
he will altogether avoid mistakes; you have a right to expect a
conscientious, courageous fidelity to public duty. I quite sympathize
with the suggestion of your Mayor, that it is one of the
proper Government functions to improve and to open to safe navigation
the great waterways of our country. The Government of
the United States has reserved to itself the exclusive control of all
navigable inland waters, and that being so, it is, of course,
incumbent upon the Government to see that the people have the
best possible use of them. They are important, as they furnish
cheap transportation, and touch points that are often, either for
economy or natural reasons, inaccessible to railway traffic. I
thank you again for your interest and bid you a kindly farewell.
If no ill happens to you that I do not wish, and all the good comes
to you that I do wish in your behalf, your lives will be full of
pleasantness and peace. [Enthusiastic cheers.]
Afterleaving The Dalles the presidential party encountered
a sand storm. At 5 o'clock in the afternoon they
arrived at the beautiful city of Pendleton and were greeted
by a large crowd, including several hundred Umatilla
Indians, led by Chiefs Peo and Ten-a-ow-itz. Chief Peo
made an address and said:
I am glad to greet the great father. Indian and white man are
now one family, friendly, and I give you the hand of welcome for
my people. You represent one race, I another, but we are all of
one Government, and between red man and white there should no
longer be war. My people want only peace. In behalf of my
tribe I say welcome, President.
The Committee of Reception comprised Mayor J. H.
Raley, Judge J. A. Fee, J. M. Leezer, Senator Matlock,
Capt. A. L. Ewing, T. C. Taylor, W. D. Fletcher, S. Rothchild,
T. F. Rourke, R. Alexander, Lot Livermore, Benj. S.
Burroughs, H. L. Marston, T. G. Hailey, W. D. Hansford,
F. W. Vincent, Mrs. M. B. Clopton, Mrs. T. C. Taylor, and
Mesdames Fee, De Spain, and Fletcher. Mayor Raley
made an address of welcome.
My Fellow-citizens—Among all the surprises that have greeted us
on our journey I do not remember any that burst upon us with
more suddenness than this beautiful sight that you have arranged
for our welcome here. Travelling for some hours through a
sparsely settled region, I did not at all anticipate that so large an
assemblage could be gathered here. I am glad to read in your
faces a full confirmation of the Mayor's words of welcome. You
have a pride in the common heritage of Government which our
fathers organized for us. You honor the flag which floats about
us here. It is pleasant to meet here, scattered over these plains of
the West, so many veterans of the great Civil War, men who
came out of the army poor as they went into it, men who did not
serve their country for reward, but out of a loving fealty to its
flag and to their Government; men who asked no questions about
pay, but went with loyal hearts to battle, determined that the flag[424]should be maintained in its supremacy from sea to sea; men who,
returning safely from the vicissitudes of the camp and the march
and from the perils of battle, have been ever since giving their
brave endeavors to open this new country, to increase its prosperity,
and by honorable labor to make comfortable homes for
themselves and their children. I greet you to-day, comrades, with
a loving heart. God grant that these later days—for years are
increasing with us all—may be full of sunshine, full of the respect
of your neighbors, full of prosperity, and crowned at last with the
full blessing of immortality.
To these little ones now enjoying the beneficent provisions which
your State has made for their care and education I give the most
affectionate greeting. The children of this land are the light and
the life of our households. They are in the family what the blossoms
are in the orchard and garden. May they appreciate the
blessings they enjoy, and when they come to mature years and
take up the unfinished labors of their fathers, may they hold aloft
the flag which their fathers followed to battle and maintain all
those things that conduce to decent and orderly communities and
to the purity of the home. To these pioneers who have under discouragements
and great difficulties sought these Western homes
and opened the way for civilization I give my greeting, and to all
I give the assurance that these distant States are not forgotten by
us who are, for the time, chosen to administer public office at
Washington. We take you all into our consideration, our confidence,
and our affection. I believe there is a great community of
interest that touches all our States. I believe that our legislation
should be as broad as our territory, should not be for classes, but
should be always in the interest of all our people. And now, thanking
you for this most interesting and cordial welcome, I bid you
good-by. [Cheers].
ThePresident had an enthusiastic reception at Le
Grande from several thousand residents. The city was
beautifully illuminated in honor of the visit. The Committee
of Reception consisted of Hon. J. H. Slater, E. S.
McComas, M. F. Honan, and R. E. Bryan. Mayor C. H.
Finn made the welcoming address.
My Fellow-citizens—It is very gratifying to see this vast assembly
here to-night, and I regret that our arrival was not in the daylight,
that we might have a better view of this city and its surroundings,
as well as of these prosperous and happy people who are assembled
here to-night. We have travelled many thousands of miles on this
journey, and it has been one continued succession of happy greetings.
We have passed through the land of flowers, and they have
strewn our pathway with them. We have come now to this north
land where the flowers are not so abundant, but where the welcome
and heartiness of the people is quite as manifest and quite as sincere.
I rejoice to have had the opportunity to see portions of the
State of Oregon which I had not previously visited. Your industries
and products are so varied that working together, supplying
the wants of different communities by the productions of each, it
must be that you shall grow in population, and that the rewards of
your labor shall be full and rich. But above all these material
things in which you show the country the resources of your people,
I rejoice that social order, education, good morals, and all those
things that tend to promote the human happiness, the peace of
your communities, and the glory of your State, are also here
thought of and promoted. [Cheers.] We are citizens of one great
country, and I do not believe there is a nation in the world where
there is a more perfect unification of heart and purpose than in the
United States of America. I do not believe there is anywhere any
people more earnestly in love with their institutions and with the
flag that symbolizes them, more in love with peace and peaceful
industries, and yet stronger in their defence of the truth and of
the right. [Cheers.] I beg again to thank your citizens of this
city and of the surrounding country for this gracious and hospitable
welcome. [Cheers.]
Theclosing event of the long day was the reception at
Baker City at 11:30P.M.Fifteen hundred people were
present and the town was illuminated. The Reception
Committee was Mayor S. B. McCord, Hon. R. S. Anderson,
and Geo. H. Tracy. Joe Hooker Post, G. A. R., Fred K.
Ernst, Commander, was present.
Responding to Mr. Anderson's welcoming address President
Harrison said:
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—It is very pleasing, so late at
night, to be greeted on our arrival here by this large audience and
by these hearty cheers. We thank you very sincerely for this evidence
of your friendly interest, and beg to assure you in return
that not only as public officers, but as citizens with you of this
great country, we are in hearty sympathy with all your pursuits
and plans and hopes in this distant State. I have heard before of
its beauty and the fertility and productiveness of its wheat fields
and of the rich mines which are found in this vicinity. Situated
as you are, the great question with you must be one of transportation,
one of getting the products of your field, the surplus of your
agricultural products, to a market. I hope you appreciate all the
advantages in this regard which the development of these Pacific
cities is giving. Every great manufacturing establishment that is
built there produces and increases population, and makes additional
and nearer market for the products of your fields. I hope the day
is not far distant when the completion of the Nicaragua Canal will
make a shorter way to the Atlantic seaboard States and much
shorter and cheaper communication with a European market. I am
glad to be assured—indeed, I do not need the assurance—that here
in Oregon, as in the Central and Eastern States, we are one people,
loyal and united in the love for the flag which some of these comrades
aided to be victorious in the great war, and that you are
thoroughly in love with our American institutions. I am glad to
assure you that, so far as I am concerned, I know no sections in
this country. I desire to promote those measures which shall
always be for the interests of all classes, and which shall diffuse
the benefits of our institutions equally and fairly among all the
States and among all our people. [Cheers.]
Boise City, the capital of Idaho, was reached at 7 o'clock
the morning of the 8th, where a stop of two hours was
made. The following committee of distinguished officials
and citizens received the President: His Excellency Gov.
N. B. Willey and official staff, comprising Col. E. J. Curtis,
Col. J. A. Torrance, Lieutenant-Colonel Casswell, and
Maj. Geo. F. Hinton; Senator Geo. L. Shoup, Hon. James
A. Pinney, Mayor of Boise City; R. Z. Johnson, President[427]Board of Trade; John Lemp, Charles A. Clark, E. R.
Leonard, C. W. Moore, J. W. Daniels, Calvin Cobb, A. J.
Glorieaux, Nathan Falk, Peter Sonna, A. R. Andola, J.
H. Richards, Hon. S. W. Moody, Capt. C. C. Stevenson,
and Capt. D. W. Figgins.
The President was escorted to the Capitol grounds by
Phil. Sheridan Post, G. A. R., D. F. Baker Commander,
A. C. Bellus, Senior Vice-Commander, N. F. Kimball,
Junior Vice-Commander. The parade was in charge of
Maj. H. E. Noyes, of the Fourth Cavalry, and was one of
the most creditable demonstrations witnessed on the trip.
The local militia and more than 1,000 school children participated.
Every veteran and each scholar carried a flag,
which elicited from President Harrison a beautiful tribute
to the national symbol.
After the review Governor Willey and Mayor Pinney
formally welcomed the President, who responded as follows:
My Friends—This is instructive and inspiring to us all as American
citizens. It is my great pleasure to stand for a little while
this morning in the political Capitol of this fresh and new State.
I had great satisfaction in taking an official part in admitting
Idaho to the Union of States. I believed that it was possessed of
a population and resources and capable of a development that fairly
entitled her to take her place among the States of the American
Union. You are starting now upon a career of development which
I hope and believe will be uninterrupted. Your great mineral
resources, now being rapidly developed, have already brought you
great wealth. Undoubtedly these are to continue to be a source of
enrichment and prosperity to your State, but I do not forget that
we must look at last for that paramount and enduring prosperity
and increase which our States should have to a development of
their agricultural resources. You will, of course, as you have
done, carefully guard and secure your political institutions. You
will organize them upon a basis of economy, and yet of liberal
progress. You will take care that only so much revenue is taken
from the people as is necessary to the proper public expenditure.
[Applause.]
I am glad to see that this banner of liberty, this flag of our
fathers, this flag that these—my comrades here present—defended[428]with honor and brought home with victory from the bloody strife
of the Civil War, is held in honor and estimation among you.
[Great applause.] Every man should take off his hat when the
starry flag moves by. It symbolizes a free republic; it symbolizes
a Nation; not an aggregation of States, but one compact, solid
Government in all its relations to the nations of the earth. [Applause.]
Let us always hold it in honor. I am glad to see that
it floats not only over your political Capitol, but over the school-houses
of your State; the children should be taught in the primary
schools to know its story and to love it. To these young children,
entering by the beneficent and early provision of your State into
the advantages of that great characteristic American institution—the
common school—I give my greeting this morning. May every
good attend them in life, and as the cares of life come on to take
the place of the joys of childhood, God grant that, instructed in
mind and heart in those things that are high and good, they may
bear with honor the responsibility which you will soon lay down.
To these comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic, survivors
of the great war, upon whom the years are making their impression,
I do not doubt that these who stand by me have borne an
honorable part among your fellow-citizens in the development of
the resources of this, their adopted State. Not long will we tarry;
but, my comrades, the story of what you have done is undying,
and I doubt not this morning that the satisfaction of having had
some small part in redeeming this Nation and preserving its integrity
will fill your hearts with gladness, even under adverse conditions
of life. A grateful Nation honors you. Every community
should give you its respect, and I can only add to-day a comrade's
greeting and a hearty God bless you all! [Cheers.]
A greatcrowd, including several hundred Indians,
greeted the President's arrival at Pocatello the night of
the 8th. The Committee of Reception consisted of Frederick
K. Walker, A. B. Bean, A. F. Caldwell, John S.
Baker, O. L. Cleveland, R. J. Hayes, E. C. Hasey, George
Dash, Frank Ramsey, J. J. Guheen, H. G. Guynn, and L.
A. West. A large delegation from Blackfoot was represented
on the committee by Hon. F. W. Beane, Col. J. W.
Jones, and F. W. Vogler.
Chairman Savidge of the committee delivered the welcoming
address and introduced the President, who said:
Fellow-citizens—In 1881, that sad summer when General Garfield
lay so long in agony and the people suffered so long in painful suspense,
I passed up the Utah and Northern Narrow Gauge Railroad
through this place—if it was a place then—to Montana on a visit.
The country through which we have passed is therefore not unfamiliar
to me. I have known of its natural conditions, and I
have seen its capabilities when brought under the stimulating influence
of irrigation. I have had, during my term in the Senate,
as Chairman of the Committee on Territories of that body, to give
a good deal of attention to the condition and needs of our Territories.
My sympathy and interest have always gone out to those
who, leaving the settled and populous parts of our country, have
pushed the frontiers of civilization farther and farther to the westward
until they have met the Pacific Ocean and the setting sun.
Pioneers have always been enterprising people. If they had not
been they would have remained at home; they endured great hardships
and perils in opening these great mines of minerals which
show in your State, and in bringing into subjection these wild
plains and making them blossom like gardens. To all such here
I would do honor, and you should do honor, for they were heroes
in the struggle for the subjugation of an untamed country to the
uses of man. I am glad to see that you have here so many happy
and prosperous people. I rejoice at the increase of your population,
and am glad to notice that with this development in population
and in material wealth you are giving attention to those
social virtues—to education and those influences which sanctify the
home, make social order secure, and honor and glorify the institutions
of our common country. [Cheers.]
I am glad, not only for the sake of the white man, but of the
red man, that these two extensive and useless reservations are
being reduced by allotment to the Indians for farms, which they are
expected to cultivate and thereby to earn their own living [cheers],
that the unneeded lands shall furnish homes for those who need
homes. [Cheers.]
And now, fellow-citizens, extending to such comrades of the
Grand Army of the Republic as I see scattered about through this
audience my most cordial greeting as a comrade, to these children
and these ladies who share with you the privations of early life on
the frontier, and to all my most cordial greeting and most sincere
thanks for your kindly demonstration, I will bid you good-by.
[Great cheering.]
AtPocatello the President was met by a committee
representing the citizens of Ogden, Utah, who took this
opportunity to pay their respects, it being impracticable to
hold a reception in that city owing to the late hour the
train passed. The Ogden committee consisted of Mayor
W. H. Turner and wife, Hon. James A. Miner, E. M. Allison
and wife, J. R. Elliott, W. N. Shilling and wife, Capt.
Ransford Smith, Wm. H. Smith, M. N. Graves and wife,
Col. A. C. Howard, Rev. A. J. Bailey, E. M. Correl and
wife, Thomas Bell, J. Cortez and wife, W. W. Funge and
wife, O. E. Hill and wife, John N. Boyle, Gilbert Belnap
and wife, Joseph Belnap, J. S. Painter, Maj. R. H. Whipple,
W. R. White, and Prof. T. B. Lewis.
The committee appointed by Governor Thomas to meet
and welcome the President at the State line on behalf of
the Territory of Utah consisted of Hon. E. P. Ferry, of
Park City; H. G. Whitney, O. J. Salisbury, and M. K.
Parsons, of Salt Lake; Lieutenant Dunning, of Fort
Douglas; and Chief-Justice Zane, Associate Justice Anderson,
Hon. C. S. Varian, Colonel Godfrey, John E.
Dooly, Heber M. Wells, E. C. Coffin, and Spencer Clawson.
The presidential party arrived at the "City of Zion" at
2:45A.M.At 8 o'clock they were met by Governor
Thomas and Mayor Geo. M. Scott at the head of the
following Citizens' Committee of Reception: Secretary
Sells, Irving A. Benton, General Kimball, Colonel Nelson,
Commissioner Robertson, C. C. Goodwin, Hon. J. T. Caine,
R. C. Chambers, Fred Simon, Hoyt Sherman, Ellsworth
Daggett, Judge Blackburn, Colonel Lett, James Hansborough,
Frank D. Hobbs, Judge Miner, General Connor,
Judge Bartch, J. H. Rumel, C. E. Allen, Arthur Pratt,
H. G. McMillan, J. P. Bache, Judge Boreman, W. H. H.
Spafford, A. J. Pendleton, Fred Heath, W. L. Pickard, H.
Pembroke, Daniel Wolstenholm, Councilman Armstrong,[431]W. P. Noble, Louis Cohn, W. P. Lynn, L. C. Karrick, E.
R. Clute, J. B. Walden, J. M. Young, Sheriff Burt, Selectmen
Howe, Miller, and Cahoon; C. B. Jack, W. H. Bancroft,
R. Mackintosh, J. H. Bennett, Robert Harkness, H.
W. Lawrence, J. B. Toronto, and Mesdames Zane, Salisbury,
Dooly, Blunt, Chambers, Goodwin, James, Anderson,
Lawrence, Gaylord, Simon, and Bartch; Miss Robertson,
Mrs. I. A. Benton, and Mrs. Hobbs. This committee
and a large body of citizens escorted the party to the
Walker House, where breakfast was served. The President
then headed a procession, composed of U.S. troops,
State guards, G. A. R. veterans, pioneers, and many other
local organizations, and was escorted to a pavilion in
Liberty Park.
Governor Thomas and Mayor Scott delivered welcoming
addresses, to which President Harrison responded as follows:
Fellow-citizens—The scenes which have been presented to us in
this political and commercial metropolis of the Territory of Utah
have been very full of beauty and full of hope. I have not seen in
all this long journey, accompanied as it has been with every manifestation
of welcome and crowned with flowers, anything that
touched my heart more than that beautiful picture on one of your
streets this morning when the children from the free public schools
of Salt Lake City, waving the one banner that we all love [cheers]
and singing an anthem of praise to that beneficent Providence
that led our worthy forefathers to land and has followed the pathway
of this Nation with His beneficent care until this bright hour,
gave us their glad welcome. [Applause and cheers.]
My service in public life has been such as to call my special attention
to, and to enlist my special interest in, the people of the
Territories. It has been a pleasant duty to welcome the Dakotas,
Washington, Montana, Idaho, and Wyoming into the great sisterhood
of the States. I think it has not fallen to any President of
the United States to receive into the Union so large a number of
States. The conditions that surround you in this Territory are of
the most hopeful character. The diversity of your productions,
your mines of gold and silver, iron, lead and coal, placed in such
proximity as to make the work of mining and reduction easy and[432]economical; your well-watered valley, capable, under the skilful
touch of the husbandman, of transformation from barren wastes
into fruitful fields—all these lying in easy reach and intercommunication,
one with the other, must make the elements of a great
commercial and political community. You do not need to doubt
the future. You will step forward confidently and progressively
in the development of your great material wealth.
The great characteristic of our American institutions—the compact
of our Government—is that the will of the majority, expressed
by legal methods at the ballot box, shall be the supreme law of all
our community. To the Territories of the United States a measure
of local government has always been given, but the supervisory
control, the supreme legislative and executive power has been,
continuously, as to the Territories, held and exercised by the general
Government at Washington. The territorial state has always
been regarded as a temporary one. The general Government has
always looked forward to a division of its vast domain—first, the
territory northwest of the Ohio, then the Louisiana purchase, then
these accessions upon the Pacific coast—into suitable sections for
the establishment of free and independent States. This great work
of creating States has gone forward from the Ohio to the Pacific,
and now we may journey from Maine to Puget Sound through
established States. [Cheers.]
The purity of the ballot-box, the wise provisions and careful
guardianship that shall always make the expression of the will of
the people fair, pure and true, is the essential thing in American
life. We are a people organized upon principles of liberty, but,
my good countrymen, it is not license. It is liberty within and
under the law. [Great applause.] I have no discord, as a public
officer, with men of any creed or politics if they will obey the law.
My oath of office, my public duty, requires me to be against those
who violate the law.
The foundation of American life is the American home. That
which distinguishes us from other nations whose political experience
and history have been full of strife and discord is the American
home, where one wife sits in single uncrowned glory. [Great
applause and cheers.] And now, my countrymen, I beg to assure
you that every hope you have for safe running on these lines of
free government, on these lines of domestic and social order, I
have. For every one of you I have the most cordial greeting.
God bless and keep you and guide you in the paths of social purity,
order, and peace, and make you one of the great communities of the
American Union. [Cheers.]
The visitors were then taken to the new Chamber of
Commerce, where the business men of the city greeted the
Chief Executive. The occasion was also the formal opening
of the building for business.
President Harrison made an address. He said:
I am very glad to witness in this magnificent structure which
you are opening to-day for your use an evidence of the commercial
importance of the city. Organizations of this character are very
useful when rightly conducted, very promotive of the business
prosperity of the cities in which they are established, and of the
best interest of their membership. It is quite right that those who
may be engaged in the rivalries of business, pushing their several
lines of trade with the energy and enterprise that characterize our
people, should now and then assemble and lay aside things that
are personal and selfish and consider the things that affect the
whole community. These organizations, as I have known them in
other States, have been the council chamber in which large and
liberal things have been devised for the development of the interests
and prosperity of the community. I do not doubt that you
will do so here; that new enterprise will be welcomed, and that
the friendly business hand will be extended to those who are seeking
investments. I wish you all success in this enterprise, and I
hope you may grow until its membership shall embrace all of your
commercial classes, and that its influence may do for your business
here what the water of your mountain streams has done for the
plains—make them grow longer and more productive, and at the
same time expel from them those mean jealousies which sometimes
divide men. [Prolonged Cheers.]
The party visited the Mormon Tabernacle, which was
profusely decorated with bunting and flags. On the side
of the Temple in large letters was the motto "Fear God;
Honor the President." The entire city was tastefully
decorated. The President reviewed the school children,
about 2,000 in number. They rendered patriotic songs,
and he addressed them in the following happy speech:
To the School Children—In all this joyous journey through this
land of flowers and the sunny South I have seen nothing more[434]beautiful and inspiring than this scene which burst upon us so
unexpectedly. This multitude of children bearing waving banners
makes a scene which can never fade from our memories. Here,
in these children from the free schools established and guarded by
your public authorities, is the hope of Utah and the country.
[Cheers.] I give you my thanks for a demonstration that has
cheered my heart. May each of you enjoy every blessing that a
free country and a more beneficent and kindly Creator can bestow.
[Cheers.]
Thefirst stop after leaving the capital of Utah was at
Lehi City, where a large sugar factory is located. The
Committee of Reception consisted of Mayor A. J. Evans,
Bishop T. R. Cutler, James Harwood, and C. A. Granger.
The President made a brief address, saying:
My Friends—This industry which you have established here is
very interesting to me. I hope it is to open the way to a time
when we shall have a home supply of sugar for every household.
[Cheers.]
Thepresidential train arrived at Provo—the Garden
City of Utah—at 1:30P.M.The greeting was a cordial
one; about 1,000 school children were present. The Reception
Committee was Mayor J. E. Booth, R. H. Dodd,
J. R. Bishop, J. B. McCauslin, M. M. Kellogg, W. S.
Myton, E. A. Wilson, Wm. H. King, D. D. Houtz, Dr. J.
N. Christensen, Dr. H. Simmons, F. F. Reed, G. W. Olger,
and W. Burlew.
Mayor Booth introduced the President, who spoke as
follows:
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—This is another of those bright
and beautiful pictures that have been spread before our eyes on
this whole journey from Washington. I am glad to stop for a
moment in this enterprising and prosperous city. I am glad to
know that you are adding manufacturing to your agriculture, and[435]that you are weaving some of the abundance of wool that is furnished
by your flocks. It is the perfection of society, commercially,
when you find immediately at your own doors a market for
those things that you have to sell. You are a long way from the
seaboard. The transportation companies, however fair their rates
may be, must levy very heavy tolls upon your produce for taking
it to the Atlantic or to the Pacific. It is then a pleasing thing
when, instead of sending your wool to some distant city to be
woven into cloth, you can do that work yourselves as you develop,
bringing in these manufacturing industries whose employees consume
the products of your farm and in turn give to the farmer that
which he and his children have to wear. You are approaching
the most independent commercial condition. When every farmer
is able to sell from his own wagon everything he produces and is
emancipated from transportation tolls, he is independent and prosperous.
I am glad to see these dear children here coming from the
free schools of your city. The public school is a most wholesome
and hopeful institution. It has an assimilative power possessed
by no other institution in our country. Where the children
of rich and poor mingle together on the play-ground and in the
school-room, there is produced a unity of feeling and a popular
love for public institutions that can be brought about in no other
way. [Cheers.] God bless and promote your public schools until
every child in your Territory shall be gathered into them. [Cheers.]
Earlyin the afternoon a brief stop was made at American
Fork, where several hundred children were marshalled
under Bishop George Halliday (Mormon) and Rev.
F. G. Webster. The Reception Committee consisted of
Mayor George Cunningham, James Chipman, John J.
Cushing, and John F. Pribyl.
The President, addressing the school children, said:
I want to express my interest in these dear children who have
gathered here. It is very pleasant to have at all these little stations
these expressions of your good-will. I rejoice to see the
development which has taken place in these regions since I was
here a few years ago, and I have no doubt that it will go on until
all your valleys are prosperous and full of happy homes. [Cheers.]
Asthe presidential train reached Castle Gate, a mining
town on the summit of the Wahsatch Mountains, the people
turned outen masse. A salute was fired with dynamite
cartridges. The President briefly thanked the people
for their greeting.
At Springville, the last stopping-point in Utah, the
committee that welcomed the President consisted of Don
C. Johnson, Joseph M. Westwood, H. M. Dougall, R. A.
Deal, and Anthony Ethier.
Governor Thomas introduced President Harrison, who
said:
My Friends—Your towns in Utah are very close together. I
scarcely close an address at one before we are in the corporate
limits of another; but I am glad to receive here this pleasant welcome.
The evidence of kindliness which I read in all your faces
is very reassuring and very comforting. It is delightful, I think,
to those who are charged with public duties to come now and then
and look into the faces of the people who have no other interest
than that the Government shall be well administered. [Cheers.]
I cannot hope, of course, to give a post office to everybody. I have
endeavored in the selection of those who are to administer the
functions of public office for the general Government to secure
good men. I have desired that everywhere they should understand
that they were the servants of the people [applause], that they
were to give the best public service possible, and that they were to
treat everybody alike.
It has been very pleasant to-day to ride through this most extraordinary
valley, and to notice how productive your fields are
and how genial and kindly your people are. [Cheers.]
I am to do whatever I can in public office to serve our people.
I am glad to contribute whatever I can as a citizen to the general
prosperity and to the glory and dignity of our country. [Cheers.]
And now one word or two to these few comrades who gather
about me. They are not many, but they are entitled to honor.
Those who struggled in the early years to establish homes in the
West, and those who in the hour of public distress and peril bared
their breasts to the shaft of battle that the Nation might live, are
worthy of the highest regard. [Cheers.] You have entered into[437]the heritage which they bought and preserved. May you, with as
true, loyal hearts as they, preserve and hand down to your children
these institutions. [Cheers.]
Atan early hour Sunday morning, May 10, the presidential
party arrived at Glenwood Springs, where they
were met by the Governor of Colorado, Hon. J. L. Routt,
Chief-Justice J. C. Helm, Hon. N. P. Hill, ex-Senator H.
A. W. Tabor, and Congressman Townsend, from Denver.
At 8 o'clock the Hon. J. L. Hodges, Mayor of the city, with
Judge G. D. Thayer, L. Schwarz, C. W. Darrow, J. H.
Fesler, F. Mager, and M. W. Mather, escorted the party to
the Hotel Glenwood, where they passed the day. The
President and Postmaster-General Wanamaker attended
divine services at the Presbyterian Church. The pastor,
Rev. W. S. Rudolph, was assisted by Rev. A. E. Armstrong,
of Leadville, and Rev. L. N. Haskell, of Denver,
Chaplain of the State Senate. The city was filled with
thousands of visitors from Aspen and other neighboring
mining towns and camps until over 10,000 people were
gathered—notwithstanding it was the Sabbath—to greet
the Chief Magistrate of the Nation.
When the President returned from witnessing several
members of his party enjoy a dip in the mammoth pool he
was met by Mayor Hodges at the head of the following
Reception Committee of prominent citizens: Joseph Love,
A. W. Dennis, Reed Burritt, F. C. Ewing, F. S. Dart,
F. C. Sohram, H. C. Eaton, J. R. De Remer, Alex. Anderson,
A. W. Dennis, Miles Standish, J. L. Hays, W. H.
Hallett, H. R. Kamm, J. T. McLean, W. H. Bradt, J.
R. Wallingford, J. G. Pease, Paul Blount, J. H. Campbell,
C. B. Ellis, B. T. Napier, Thomas Kendrick, E. T. Wolverton,
Fred Korupkat, C. A. Lee, Dr. G. H. Moulton, M. V.
B. Blood, James Leach, P. F. Carr, George Edinger, W.[438]H. Spear, Joseph Enzensperger, C. M. Keck, J. W. Beaman,
J. M. Stevens, R. O. Hoover, E. Schuster, J. W.
Ross, William Chrisman, G. H. Ferris, F. A. Enoch,
Frank Lindsley, Frank Kaiser, J. A. I. Claudon, F. A.
Barlow, Ed. B. Everett, N. Falk, H. C. Bunte, H. W.
Ennen, William Dougan, Dr. L. G. Clark, James Anderson,
Chris. Beck, J. S. Swan, H. J. Holmes, James Coughlin,
S. H. Wood, John Miller, N. S. Henderson, J. M.
Durand, Jr., Matt. Carroll, John Lynch, W. H. Trumbor,
S. W. Nott, B. Hopkins, William Houston, C. V. Noble,
C. M. Kiggins, Dr. E. A. Bryant, J. N. Bishop, William
Denning, A. Miller, J. H. Connor, C. H. Belding, William
Dinkle, C. L. Todd, George Yule, C. A. Hahn, H. H. Gates,
James Soister, C. C. Hendrie, P. R. Morris, J. L. Noonan,
Fred L. Walthers, T. W. Thomas, C. C. Parks, J. T.
Shumate, Wm. Gelder, M. J. Bartley, A. E. Bartlett, John
McReavy, W. S. Parkinson, Frank Dallis, E. H. Watson,
J. H. Bixby, Jake Kline, M. M. Cantrell, J. H. Pierce, C.
C. Streeter, E. T. Taylor, John Eitel, P. C. Coryell, Frank
Mason, Fred Korn, W. H. Richardson, H. C. Babize,
George Bennett, Frank Lyle, J. F. Myser, R. Stees, J.
W. Ritter, R. P. Mallaby, W. De Long, L. F. Grace, Ed.
Meachem, Andrew Anderson, Joe Keating, W. H. Sikes,
W. L. Willoughby, T. R. Williams, J. W. Dollison, Alex.
Voorhees, Theo. Rosenberg, H. T. Sale, S. J. De Lan,
William Cardnell, G. B. Garrison, R. M. Hedden, P. H.
Fitzpatrick, C. W. Durand, Kellie Cookson, Albert Gerstle,
F. P. Monroe, William Shaw, C. J. Feist, E. E.
Knight, George Phillips, Ed. S. Hughes, D. W. Smart, P.
G. Foote, W. T. Beans, C. Poole, J. H. Mager, W. J.
Brennan, Murdo McLeod, J. E. Chaney, A. W. Maxfield,
William Smith, A. M. Stevenson, C. B. Brown, M. N. Edwards,
and Harry Van Sickle.
The Mayor made the welcoming address and presented
the President with a solid silver plate, superbly engraved
with the coat-of-arms of Colorado.
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—In arranging the programme of
this trip, and desiring to find one day in the seven for rest, we
selected this spot because of its fame throughout the East as one of
delightful location and natural attractions. I am glad this selection
was made. It has given me much pleasure—the beauty of
your surroundings and especially the picturesque attractiveness
and magnificence of the scenery. The city which you are launching
forth upon the tide of usefulness and prosperity will grow in
fame. I thank you most cordially for this souvenir, and I leave
with you my most earnest hope for the prosperity of the city.
Senator Tabor introduced a delegation from Aspen representing
1,000 miners from that famous camp. Col. E. F.
Browne then presented a most unique souvenir—a silver
card bearing mottoes worked in native wire silver.
In accepting this rare token the President said:
This is one of the most beautiful of all the souvenirs that have
been presented me on this trip. I wish to say to you that I do not
regard your visit as an intrusion. I will not undertake to dilate
upon the fatigue of this trip. I have been leaning over the hind
rail of the train for a long time, and I came to Glenwood Springs
tired. I wish to remain quiet, not from any puritanical notion of
the Sabbath, and I hope none of you will feel that way. It is not
because I don't want to see you. It is the contrary, I assure you,
and I regret my inability to give you all a public reception.
I have for Aspen and her people the kindest wishes. As for the
State of Colorado, it will grow more vigorous and richer in all that
makes an American commonwealth.
In common with Western States, Colorado has had the pick of
the people of the Eastern States. It seems to me as though her
citizens had passed competitive examination for push and enterprise,
and only the worthless were turned back at the ferry. I
thank you for your liberality.
Charles R. Bell, of Aspen, State President Patriotic Order
Sons of America, presented the President with an address.
In the afternoon President Harrison and Mr.
Wanamaker attended union services and children's mass-meeting
at Durand's Hall. Rev. H. M. Law presided, but
Mayor Hodges introduced the President, who said:
Mr. Mayor, Fellow-citizens and Children—Our stop at Glenwood
Springs was, as you all know, intended to be for rest; and yet I
have not felt that I could deny myself to this large body of friends
assembled from the homes of this city, and, perhaps, to an even
larger body of friends who have come from some of the neighboring
towns to pay their respects and testify their good-will. The trip
we have been making has been a prolonged one, and it has been a
continued experience of speech-making and hand-shaking. The
physical labor has been very great, and I think if one had been
called upon to do the same amount of work without the stimulus
and inspiration which have come from the happy faces and kind
hearts of the people who have greeted us, almost any man would
have given out. Certainly I would had I not been borne up and
helped by the wonderful kindness of our people.
I have been intensely interested in what I have seen. It has
testified to me of the unity of the people East and West. Out here
you take on some peculiarities as we do in Indiana, but underneath
these peculiarities there is the same true American grit and spirit.
[Applause.] It is not wonderful that this should be so. It is not
a mere likeness between different people, because you are precisely
the same people that I have known in the Central and Eastern
States. Everywhere I have gone I have seen Hoosiers; everywhere
Mr. Wanamaker has gone he has seen Pennsylvanians; everywhere
General Rusk has gone Wisconsin hands have been reached up to
him. These new States have been filled up by the enterprising
and pushing young men of the older States. They have set out to
find here greater advantages, more rapid pathways to wealth and
competence. Many of them have found it, many of them are still
perhaps in the hard struggle of life; but to you all, to every man,
whether he is mine-owner or handles the pick, I bring you my
warmest sympathy and my most sincere thanks for your friendly
greeting. [Applause.]
Our Government was instituted by wise men—men of broad
views. It was based upon the idea of the equal rights of men. It
absolutely rejects the idea of class distinction and insists that men
should be judged by their behavior. That is a good rule; those
who are law-abiding and well-disposed, those who pursue their
vocations lawfully and with due respect to the rights of others, are
the true American citizens. I am glad to know that the love of
our institutions is so deeply imbedded in your hearts. It has been
a most delightful and cheering thing to see that the starry banner,
the same old flag that some of you carried amid the smoke of
battle, the rattle of musketry, booming of cannon, and the dying[441]of men, is in the hands of such children. [Applause.] Some of
the prettiest as well as some of the most hopeful sights we have
looked upon have been these companies of children gathered on
the streets or hill-sides waving this banner.
The American institutions deserve our watchful care. All our
communities should be careful in the beginning to establish law
and maintain it. It is very difficult when lawlessness once obtains
the upper hand to put it down. It is very easy to keep it out of
any community if the well-disposed, true-hearted people will sink
all their differences, religious and political, and stand together as
citizens for the good of their municipalities. [Applause.]
I want to thank the children who have gathered for this Sabbath-day's
observance. I have had a life that has been full of labor.
From my early manhood until this hour my time has had many
demands upon it. I have been under the pressure of the practice
of my profession. I have been under the pressure of political
campaigns and of public office, and yet in all these pursuits, and
under all these conditions, I have found, simply as a physical
question, without reference to its religious aspects at all, that I
could do more by working six days than seven.
I think you will all find it so, and that as a civil institution rest
on the Sabbath day is good for man. It is not only good, but it is
the right of the workingman. Men should have one free day in
which to think of their families, of themselves, of things that are
not material, but are spiritual. [Applause.]
I desire to express from a sincere and earnest heart my thanks
to you all for all your kindness, giving you in return simply the
pledge that I will in all things keep in mind what seems to me to
be the true interests of our people. I have no thought of sections,
I have no thought upon any of the great public questions that does
not embrace the rights and interests of all our people and all our
States. I believe we shall find a common interest and safe ground
upon all the great questions, and by moderating our own views
and making reasonable and just concessions we shall find them all
settled wisely and in the true interest of the people. [Applause.]
Leadville, the Cloud City, was reached at 7:30A.M.Monday. Ten thousand citizens greeted the Chief Magistrate
at this greatest of silver camps. The following
delegation met the presidential party at Glenwood and
escorted them to Leadville: His Honor Mayor John E.
Foutz, Hon. H. I. Higgins, W. Arens, John Harvey, A.
Sherwin, A. V. Hunter, S. F. Maltby, John Ewing, John
Williams, W. F. Patrick, H. C. Burnett, Rev. A. E.
Armstrong, Mrs. Foutz, Mrs. Hunter, Mrs. Morgan H.
Williams, and Mrs. E. Forbes. The ladies of this committee
presented Mrs. Harrison with numerous beautiful
silver souvenirs.
Chairman Higgins and the following members of the
Reception Committee escorted the party to the Hotel Kitchen:
Mrs. W. F. Patrick, W. W. Old, Mrs. J. Y. Oliver,
A. A. Blow, Mrs. H. W. Hardinge, Charles Cavender,
Rev. E. S. Ralston, B. S. Buell, Samuel Brown, A. Sherwin,
Robert Estey, H. R. Pendery, Charles L. Hill, J. S.
Jones, Robert Cary, Geo. W. Trimble, C. P. Schumacher,
J. S. Saunders, John Harvey, J. H. Weddle, John Nowland,
W. F. Patrick, Hon. Wm. Kellogg, Frank G. White,
John F. Champion, James Smith, Moses Londoner, J. J.
M. McRobbie, Maj. A. V. Bohn, and John Lumsden. The
veterans of Garfield Post, G. A. R., composed the guard
of honor. Judge Luther M. Goddard made the welcoming
address, and in the name of the city presented the distinguished
visitor a silver brick.
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—This rare, pure atmosphere, this
bright sunshine, the national colors, this multitude of lifted, smiling
faces to greet us is a scene that should raise the dullest heart
to emotions of thankfulness and pride—pride wholly separated from
personal considerations, a pride in which everything personal is
swallowed up by the contemplation that all this is the outcome,[443]the manifestation, the culmination of free American institutions.
[Cheers.] We stand here on this mountain-top and see what I
think is the highest evidence of American pluck to be found in
the United States. [Laughter and applause.] I have addressed
my fellow-citizens on many thousands of occasions, but never
before stood so near the dome. [Cheers.] It is a wonderful testimony
to the energy and adaptation of the American that he should
have pushed his way to this high altitude, above the snow-line,
and erected here these magnificent and extensive industries and
these beautiful and happy homes. I rejoice with you in all that
has been accomplished here.
I bring thanks to you for that great contribution you have made
to the wealth of a country we all love. [Cheers.] I bring to you
the assurance that as an individual citizen and as a public officer
my interest, my affection, and my duty embrace all the people of
this land. [Cries of "Good!" and cheers.]
I am glad to know we have in the past history of our country
found that happy unity of interest which has acted beneficially
upon all our institutions and all our people. With due regard to
all local interests, we should seek that general legislation which
touches with kindly fingers the humblest homes in our land. I do
most sincerely thank you for this token of the product of your
mines. It is a precious metal, but much more precious to me is
the kindly thought and the generous welcome which you have
given us in Leadville. [Cheers.]
My lungs are unaccustomed to this rare and stimulating atmosphere,
and you will permit me to close by giving you all, to the
men who, deep down in these mines, are toilsomely working out
the precious metal, to those who welcome you in your homes when
you return from your toil, the wives and children who add grace
and sweetness to our lives, to these children who have gathered
to greet us, a most cordial salutation and a regretful good-by.
[Cheers.]
Buena Vistagave the President a cordial greeting.
The Committee of Reception included Mayor Mason, Hon.
A. R. Kenedy, Capt. A. V. P. Day, A. H. Wade, Col.
Henry Logan, J. C. Stuart, and A. C. Bottorff. Phil. Sheridan
Post, G. A. R., Col. G. D. Childs Commander, participated
in the reception. Dr. Struthers and W. W. Fay
presented the President with three fine trout caught in
Thompson's Lake, and weighing six pounds each.
My Friends—I am very glad to see your bright and kind faces
this morning, and to tarry for a few moments, just long enough to
say "How do you do?" and "Good-by." It is very pleasant to find
everywhere and at every station the same friendly looks and the
same kindly greeting. I am glad to have an opportunity that I
have not previously had of seeing the State of Colorado, great in
her present condition and having a greater future development
than perhaps you yourselves realize. This combination of agricultural
and mining industries can work but good for the high
development of Colorado. Your cattle and your sheep and your
mines and your agriculture in your valleys all produce that ideal
condition of things in which you find a nearer market for what
you raise. I hope the time will come when in addition to smelting
furnaces in your mines you will learn to weave the wool from your
sheep in place of sending it abroad to be made into clothing. The
more you can develop these things and do your own work the
more prosperous will be your condition. These dear children have
cheered me heartily all the way on this journey. The public
schools are worthy of your most thoughtful care. It is there that
the children meet on a common ground. It is there class distinctions
are wiped out. It is the great American institution. You
have well named your little hamlet Buena Vista. [Cheers.]
Threethousand people from the surrounding district
welcomed the President at Salida. The Reception Committee
consisted of Mayor John G. Hollenbeck, J. H. Stead,
S. M. Jackson, W. W. Roller, J. A. Israel, E. B. Jones, and
W. P. Harbottle. Stanton Post, G. A. R., W. G. Westfall
Commander, and the children of the public schools
were present. Miss Clara Ayers, on behalf of the public
schools, presented Mrs. Harrison with a handsome portfolio
of Colorado wild flowers prepared by Mrs. E. P. Chester.
Dr. Durbin, on behalf of the citizens of Villa Grove, presented
a fine collection of mineral specimens.
I have looked with great interest, in passing through these mountain
gorges, at the enterprise of the people who have constructed
intersecting lines of railroad upon these difficult grades and through
threatening cañons. It has not been many days since such feats of
engineering would have been regarded as impossible, and yet now
railroads have touched the highest points, have gone above the
snow line, have reached elevated mines, and brought isolated valleys
into rapid and easy communication with the more settled parts
of the country. It has given me great pleasure to look upon the
beautiful valley in which the town of Salida is situated, and which
will undoubtedly be capable of large agricultural production when
a system of irrigation is completed. It might be desirable to the
people of Indiana and Illinois and other agricultural States if Colorado
had to buy her wheat and corn from them, but our larger
interest makes it desirable that every community should supply its
own wants. I anticipate with pleasure the day when these mountain
States will not be content with mining, but shall add agricultural
pursuits and manufacturing, and when the wool which is
sheared from the flocks will be woven at home. [Cheers.]
It is a pleasant condition of things when all classes are prosperous,
when the workingman has fair wages that leave him some
margin above his daily necessities. I should lose hope for our
institutions when there should be despairing classes among us. An
American citizen could not be a good citizen who did not have
hope in his heart. Every boy, however humble, can pass through[446]our public schools and climb to any position of usefulness and
honor he has the ability to attain. There have been marvellous
instances of what courage and pluck and intelligence may do in
this way.
To the children I give a cordial greeting. They have been a
happy feature of almost every gathering in the journey. I hope
they may all receive that attention which will make them men and
women of intelligence, and capable of taking a full share in all
these good things in the community and in the State, for which
they are to be responsible. [Cheers.]
LeavingSalida the route lay through a stretch of country
unsurpassed in grandeur. The train made a short
stop on the hanging bridge over the Arkansas River in the
Grand Cañon. Emerging through the Royal Gorge the
party reached Cañon City at 2P.M.amid the cheers of
its entire population, including 400 school children. Mayor
J. M. Bradbury, T. M. Harding, A. D. Cooper, and Warden
W. A. Smith were among the prominent residents who
welcomed the President; also, Greenwood Post, G. A. R.,
Dr. J. L. Prentiss, Commander.
Comrades and Fellow-citizens—It gives me great pleasure to see
you and accept with a thankful heart those cordial greetings with
which you have met us. I have been talking so much since I left
Washington that I really am almost talked out; and yet, until I
shall have altogether lost my voice, of which there does not seem
to be any prospect, I cannot refrain from saying thank you to
those friends who greet us with such affectionate interest. We do
appreciate it very highly. But I do not at all assume it is merely
your interest in me. It is, I am sure, your interest in the country,
in its Constitution, and in its flag—the flag for which these comrades
fought, which they carried through the stress of battle and
brought home in honor. It is our free institutions, our free ballot,
our representative Government, that you all honor in coming here
to-day. It is very surprising and very pleasant to drop down out
of these snow-clad summits and to have passed into our hands in
the valley, branches of peach and pear and bouquets of flowers, the[447]first fruits of spring—a spring more genial here than it seemed
at Leadville this morning. [Applause.] I am very glad to have
revealed to me the possibilities of this country, and to see how,
under the system of irrigation, that which seemed to be a waste—accursed
of God—comes to be a very garden of Eden in beauty and
productiveness. I hope you have not only the fruits and flowers
of paradise, but that you have in your homes that state of peace
and blessedness which prevailed before our first mother took the
apple. [Applause.] To these comrades I want to give a comrade's
greeting. I know of no higher honor in this world than to be
called "comrade" by the survivors of those who saved the Union,
[Applause.]
Thenext stop was at Florence, in the oil district, whose
citizens gave the President a most cordial greeting. The
Reception Committee comprised Mayor Isaac Canfield,
Senator J. A. McCandless, J. F. Collins, J. H. McDaniel,
Thomas Robinson, Thomas E. Spencer, Richard McDonald,
W. J. Daniels, and Joseph Patterson. An enthusiastic
citizen proposed three cheers "for the first President who
has thought enough of us to come and see us." They were
given with a will, and the President responded as follows:
My Fellow citizens—I am very much obliged to you for this
greeting. I expect there have been other Presidents who thought
of you, though they have not visited you. This has been a very
pleasant and instructive journey to me. I thought I had kept
myself reasonably well informed of the capabilities of this country
and of its productions, but I am amazed to find how things are
put together. We come out of the snow where everything is barren
and where labor is under ground, where the precious metals are
being extracted, and there is nothing pleasant in the landscape
except the snow covered mountains, and presently we are into a
land of fruit, and have handed up to us great branches laden with
well-set peach and pear, and are showered again, as we were in
California, with the flowers of the early spring, and now, to my
surprise, we seem to be in the oil region of Pennsylvania. These
numerous derricks and oil lodes remind us of things about Oil
City. Until I saw them I was not aware that you had here in[448]Colorado oil production. It shows us how impartial, after all, the
great Creator has been. He has given us everywhere possibilities
which, if well improved, will make comfortable, happy homes.
You have the metals, precious and common, and the coal that is
needed for the smelter; oil to light your homes and lubricate your
machinery, and these orchards and beautiful valleys, all in the
right proximity. No man could have improved upon it. [Applause.]
Our Government intends to have a careful and impartial
consideration of all its people. We do not recognize classes or
distinctions. We want everybody to be prosperous and happy,
especially the working people. [Cheers.]
I do not know how our institutions could endure unless we so
conduct our public affairs and society that every man who is sober
and industrious shall be able to make a good, comfortable living
and lay something aside for old age or for evil days; to have hope
in his heart and better prospects for his children. That is the
strength of American institutions. Whatever promotes that I
want to favor. Whatever tends to pauperize our people or impair
the earning power of the laboring class I do not favor. [Cheers.]
Anartillery salute welcomed the party to Pueblo at 3:30P.M.Mayor W. B. Hamilton, Col. M. H. Fitch, D. W.
Barkley, Hon. I. W. Stanton, A. McClelland, and O. H.
P. Baxter comprised the committee that escorted the President
from Glenwood Springs. Arrived at the station the
Chief Executive was conveyed to the Court House Square
by the following Committee of Reception: E. C. Lyman,
Paul Wilson, Benjamin Guggenheim, D. L. Holden, E.
R. Chew, Fred Betts, N. O. McClees, W. A. Moses, F. E.
Baldwin, A. S. Dwight, J. R. Flickenger, R. M. Stevenson,
W. B. McKinney, John Lockin, E. C. Billings, A.
F. Ely, W. B. Palmer, J. S. Johnston, N. E. Guyot, M.
Studzinski, G. T. Nash, J. W. Purdy, P. F. Sharp, S. A.
Abbey, E. H. Martin, N. S. Walpole, T. J. Cribbs, J. G.
Keller, and C. C. Gaines. Upton Post, G. A. R., C. J.
Long Commander, and many other organizations participated
in the parade.
At the Court House Square 6,000 children greeted the
President, who was introduced by Dr. William A. Olmsted
and said:
Children of the Public Schools and Others—I am glad to meet
such an immense number here, and I can't allow this opportunity
to pass without expressing to you my thanks for this whole-souled
reception. It moves my heart to say that from your appearances
you are well taught, not only in manners but in your intellectual
pursuits; your bright, ruddy faces show health, and as you are
living in this healthful place it speaks marvels for Pueblo. The
country need fear no attack from foreign foes when such an army
as you'll some day make would be called into action. You have
your destiny all before you, and no one can tell but that some of
these boys may be a President and these beautiful girls advise
those who are born to fill high places in the Government. Children,
I am pleased to see you, and will hold in dear remembrance
this, my first visit to Pueblo—a city full of American genius and
enterprise, which will hold its own and keep on apace with that
progress characteristic of Americans. God bless you all. [Cheers.]
As Mrs. Harrison's carriage drew up the school children
presented her with a handsome painting—the "Colorado
Columbine." The President then visited the Colorado
Mineral Palace, where President L. S. McLain and Secretary
Livezey of the Exposition presented him with specimens
of rich ore.
Colonel Stanton made the welcoming address and introduced
President Harrison to the great assemblage, who
responded as follows:
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—The brief time which we are
able in this hasty journey to allot to the city of Pueblo has now
almost expired. It has given me pleasure to drive through the
streets of this prosperous and enterprising municipality and to see
that you are concentrating great business interests which must in
the future make you a very important centre in this great State.
You have in this State a variety of resources unexcelled, I think,
by any other State. Your attention was very naturally first directed
toward the precious metals, to the mining of gold and silver. The
commoner ores were neglected. Your cities were mining camps.
Nowhere in all our history has the American capacity for civil
organization been so perfectly demonstrated as in the mining camps[450]of the West. Coming here entirely beyond the range of civil institutions,
where courts, sheriffs, and police officers could not give a
hand to suppress the unruly at a time when our mining laws were
unframed, these pioneer miners of California, Colorado, Nevada,
Montana, and Idaho wrought out for themselves in their mining
camps a system of government and mining laws that have received
the approval of the State. [Cheers.] It was quite natural that
interest should have been first directed toward the precious metals.
You are coming to realize that the baser metals, as we call them,
with which your great hills are stored are of great and more lasting
value. [Cheers.] We passed this morning through a region where
I was surprised to see orchards that reminded me of California.
Now for all these things, for the beneficent influence under which
you live, for that good law that has distributed this public domain
freely to every man who desires to make a home for himself and
family, for this free Government that extends its protection over
the humblest as well as the mighty, for all these resources of sky
and air and earth, the people of Colorado should be joyously
thankful. [Cheers.] I am glad to hail you as fellow-citizens. I
am glad for a moment to stand in the midst of you, to see your
great capabilities, and to assure you that my best wishes are with
you in the development of them all. [Cheers] I am glad to know
that Colorado, this young Centennial State, has established a system
of free public schools unexcelled by any State in the Union
[Cheers.] But, my friends, as I said once before, I am in slavery
to a railroad schedule, and time is up Good-by. [Cheers.]
Thepresidential party arrived at Colorado Springs at
6 o'clock in the evening and received the heartiest kind of
a welcome. They were met at the station by the Hon. Ira
G. Sprague, Mayor of the city, at the head of a large Committee
of Reception, comprising the following prominent
citizens: Judge John Campbell, J. F. Seldomridge, J. H.
Barlow, Irving Howbert, J. W. Stillman, W. S. Jackson,
B. F. Crowell, Col. Geo. De La Vergne, Hon. W. F.
Slocum, J. A. Hayes, Jr., E. Barnett, Geo. H. Stewart,
G. S. Barnes, W. A. Conant, W. L. Weed, H. C. McCreery,
E. W. Davis, D. Heron, W. R. Roby, C. H.[451]White, C. E. Noble, B. W. Steele, L. H. Gowdy, J. H.
B. McFerran, D. M. Holden, W. S. Nichols, Dr. T. G.
Horn, Dr. W. A. Campbell, Thomas Hughes, J. P. Barnes,
W. A. Roby, Dr. B. P. Anderson, Judge J. B. Severy,
T. A. McMorris, F. L. Martin, J. M. Sellers, H. H.
Stevens, J. A. Weir, Geo. W. Thorne, J. J. Hagerman,
H. C. Lowe, L. R. Ehrich, J. F. Pebbles, Charles Thurlow,
A. Van Vechten, E. S. Wooley, J. M. Ellison, C. C.
Hoyt, Dr. W. M. Strickler, Dr. J. P. Grannis, Dr. S. E.
Solly, Judge William Harrison, W. H. Reed, Geo. F.
Whitney, E. A. Colburn, W. R. Barnes, Charles W. Collins,
N. O. Johnson, E. W. Giddings, P. C. Helm, C. E.
Durkee, W. C. Stark, Matt Wilbur, C. E. Stubbs, H. C.
Fursman, J. H. Sinclair, L. P. Lowe, J. C. Woodbury,
W. H. Tilton, L. A. Pease, Thomas Barber, David McShane,
H. A. Fuller, W. A. Perkins, Fred Robinson,
Geo. B. Perry, Count James Pourtales, W. B. Faunce,
E. M. Stedman, M. W. Everleth, Dr. O. Gillette, A.
A. McGooney, E. J. Eaton, Matt France, Henry L. B.
Wills, H. S. Ervay, C. J. Reynolds, Frank White,
W. F. Anderson, Thomas Parrish, P. A. McCurdy, C.
B. Crowell, W. A. Otis, J. N. Bolton, H. A. Ferugson, H.
Collbran, Geo. P. Riplet, H. G. Lunt, T. H. Edsall, A. L.
Lawton, W. H. D. Merrill, K. H. Field, Dr. H. T. Cooper,
A. J. Denton, H. I. Reid, C. W. Howbert, W. H. Hoagland,
J. W. D. Stovell, S. H. Kingsley, F. A. Mangold, Dr.
T. C. Kirkwood, Godfrey Kissell, Thomas Gough, V. Z.
Reed, H. S. Van Petten, T. S. Brigham, O. P. Hopkins, D.
C. Dudley, E. R. Stark, A. S. Holbrook, Milo Rowell,
Charles Walker, Prof. J. E. Ray, W. S. Nichols, Thomas
Shideler, Leonard Jackson, L. C. Dana, L. E. Sherman,
Samuel Bradford, William Clark, F. E. Dow, Geo. P.
Vaux, I. J. Woodworth, A. A. Williams, W. D. Belden,
W. H. Goshen, D. A. Russell, C. L. Gillingham, C. E.
Aiken, Dr. G. W. Lawrence, Geo. H. Parsons, Jehu Fields,
Edward Ferris, E. F. Clark, A. Sutton, Phil Strubel, F.[452]A. Sperry, P. K. Pattison, L. H. Gilbert, Prof. Wm.
Strieby, Theo. Harrison, F. H. Morley, E. T. Ensign, Wm.
Lennox, W. H. McIntyre, J. E. Newton, John Hundley,
Dr. F. Hale, John Lennox, Wm. Bischoff, N. J. Davis, J.
L. Clinton, J. D. O'Haire, Dr. B. St. G. Tucker, E. S.
Josleyn, Seth Baker, Joseph Dozier, O. Roberts, J. E. Ray,
J. Plumb, H. Hall, Dr. M. S. Smith, W. H. Sanford, Lawrence
Myers, S. N. Nye, John Potter, C. H. Burgess, L.
G. Goodspeed, J. Sumner, E. F. Rudy, Maj. O. Remick,
E. S. Bumstead, G. C. Hemenway, John Simmons, H.
Halthusen, William Banning, Reuben Berrey, A. H. Corman,
F. D. Pastorious, J. L. Armit, Judson Bent, Rev.
James B. Gregg, Rev. A. R. Kieffer, Rev. R. Montague,
Rev. H. H. Bell, Rev. J. P. Lucas, Rev. M. D. Ormes, Rev.
H. E. Warner, and Rev. M. Carrington.
The G. A. R. veterans comprised the presidential guard
of honor during the parade through the city. Civic organizations
from Manitou, Colorado City, Colfax, and Koener
participated in the demonstration, which was very fine
and received the special commendation of President Harrison.
After the parade the Garfield School was visited, and
the President addressed the scholars as follows:
You have very appropriately named this school in which you
have gathered a portion of the children of Colorado Springs for
instruction—Garfield. I understand another of your public schools
is named after Abraham Lincoln. That, too, is a most appropriate
designation; for where, in all the story of our country, among its
men who have been illustrious in civil pursuits or in war, can
two names be found which furnish more inspiration and hope to
the youth of the land than the names of Lincoln and Garfield?
[Applause.] Both men came of parentage so poor that no advantages
attended their early years, and yet each by his own indomitable
will, by the persevering improvement of the meagre opportunities
they enjoyed, reached the highest place in our land, and are to-day
embalmed in the affectionate recollection of their countrymen. I
bid you all to read the lessons of these great lives, and to ponder
them well, for while not all may achieve all they achieved, useful[453]and honorable position may be achieved by you all. Wishing you
every prosperity and success, I bid you good-by. [Cheers.]
At night the city was brilliantly illuminated. A public
reception was held at the Hotel Antlers. The President
and his party were assisted by Governor and Mrs. Routt
and the Citizens' Committee. The welcoming ceremonies
took place before a great assemblage; Mayor Sprague made
the address.
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—I am sure you will crown the
kindness which you have shown me to-day by permitting me to
make my response to these words of welcome exceedingly brief. I
have spoken four or five times to-day, and the chill of the evening
will not allow me to exercise my voice with the accustomed immunity,
but I cannot refrain from saying to you how much we
have been pleased by the hasty glimpse we have been permitted to
get of this beautiful city. The fame of Colorado Springs has spread
throughout the entire East. I heard much of the beauty of its
location, the grandeur and sublimity of these mountains that stand
about bulwarked, as it is, like Jerusalem of old; of the health-giving
atmosphere that fills this valley, of the marvellous springs,
refreshing and life giving, which break out from your mountain
sides; of these marvellous and weird products of time that stand
in the Garden of the Gods—of all this I had heard. But, my
countrymen, no spring that ever broke from mountain side, no
bracing air that ever filled these valleys, was more refreshing and
invigorating to the invalid or to the weary than your hearty greeting
has been to us. [Cheers.]
I visit your great State for the first time. When this journey has
been completed only two of the States of the Union, and only its
most distant Territory, will have escaped my personal inspection
and observation. From Maine to California, from the northern
line of Michigan, where it is washed by the waters of the Sault
Ste. Marie, to the Savannah, I have traversed this broad land of
ours, and out of all this journeying, out of all this mingling with
our people, I have come to be a prouder and, I hope, a better
American. We have a country whose diversity of climate, soil,
and production makes it, in a degree not true of other people in
the world, independent and self-contained. None of the necessaries
of life, and few of its luxuries, would be denied to us if we
were to limit ourselves to articles of American growth and pro[454]duction.
[Cheers.] But better than all this, greater than our
bulk, are those things that enter into and characterize the American
social and political life. A distinguished Englishman journeying
in this country not many years ago, speaking of his
observations, rather caustically mentioned that the question most
often propounded to him was whether he was not surprised by the
great size of the country. He was a man of discernment, one who
looked beneath the surface, who had learned to measure the mighty
impulses which turn the current of human civilization, and rebuking
this pride of bulk he said: Yes, it was a surprise, but
greater still to him was the surprise that over 60,000,000 people
could maintain and preserve under free republican institutions
the social order and individual liberty which was maintained here;
greater to him than bulk was the marvel that this great people
could have survived and maintained its institutions under the terrible
stress of the great Civil War; greater than all else to him
was that unification of the people which seemed to follow that period
of deadly strife. I rejoice to be with you to-night as an American
citizen. I rejoice in the glory which the Centennial State has
brought to the Union, and which will greatly increase. [Cheers.]
Onhis arrival at Denver, at 9:45 Tuesday morning,
President Harrison received an ovation. The tribute was
a spontaneous, hearty one, emphasized by the acclaim of
100,000 people. Governor Routt, ex-Senator Tabor, ex-Senator
Hill, and other distinguished citizens escorted the
presidential party from Glenwood Springs.
The Chief Executive was met at the Union Depot by
the Hon. Platt Rogers, Mayor of the city, and 200 prominent
residents, comprising the Committee of Reception,
as follows: D. H. Moffat, I. B. Porter, C. E. Taylor, Wolfe
Londoner, J. E. Leet, Professor Haswell, S. H. Standart, W.
S. Cheesman, James Leonard, W. D. Todd, Adolph Zang,
Phil. Bockfinger, T. M. Patterson, C. S. Thomas, J. M.
Berkey, M. J. McNamara, C. H. Reynolds, J. D. McGilvray,
H. N. Chittenden, J. A. Thatcher, J. S. Wolfe, Dr.[455]L. E. Lemen, Edward Eddy, Dr. Stedman, E. R. Barton,
D. Sheedy, H. B. Chamberlin, George Tritch, James Rice,
Victor Elliott, E. Monash, Thomas E. Poole, W. J. Barker,
J. T. Cornforth, J. K. Mullen, E. B. Light, Fine P. Ernest,
Colonel Dodge, Donald Fletcher, W. G. Fisher, A. C. Fisk,
M. Hallett, F. A. Meredith, Charles B. Kountz, I. E. Blake,
Dr. Dennison, W. H. James, C. M. Kittredge, Joseph H.
Smith, William Stapleton, J. C. Helm, S. T. Smith, P. J.
Flynn, Isaac Brinker, Judge Rising, Frank Bishop, Supervisor
Anderson, J. W. Roberts, Herman Strauss, J. H.
Brown, A. B. McKinley, W. J. Barker, H. P. Steele, Lafe
Pence, George F. Batchelder, Rev. J. M. Freeman, John
Arkins, ex-Governor Grant, J. M. Lawrence, J. J. Joslin,
F. J. V. Skiff, W. S. Decker, John Corcoran, W. B. Felker,
F. B. Hill, J. D. Best, John Riethmann, Thomas Hayden,
Anthony Sweeney, ex-Governor Cooper, Charles D. Cobb,
John Evans, William Scott Lee, Peter Magnes, Dr. Bancroft,
E. F. Hallack, R. H. McMann, S. L. Holzman, H.
R. Wolcott, J. S. Brown, M. B. Carpenter, Joseph Cresswell,
R. W. Woodbury, E. M. Ashley, J. S. Appel, E. L.
Scholtz, Dennis Sullivan, Samuel Elbert, G. W. Clayton,
J. C. Montgomery, G. C. De Bronkart, Louis Mack, C. S.
Morey, George E. Randolph, William Barth, T. S. McMurray,
J. E. Bates, C. F. Wilson, Rev. Myron W. Reed,
Dr. Graham, J. L. McNeill, W. H. Bush, G. G. Symes,
Rodney Curtis, J. W. Nesmith, O. E. Le Fevre, Judge
Furman, H. J. Adams, J. C. Twombly, Judge Graham, F.
Rinne, Supervisor Slack, Gen. W. A. Hamill, H. P. Parmelee,
General Dunn, J. H. Poole, George Raymond, J.
W. Hampton, Henri Foster, W. C. Lothrop, James H.
Blood, E. W. Merritt, Wm. Harris, General Humphrey,
Daniel Ryan, R. S. Roe, R. W. Speer, C. S. Lee, Jos. Milner,
J. A. McDonald, Judge Bentley, M. Currigan, M. D.
Van Horn, Fred Walsen, Dr. H. K. Steele, Assyria Hall,
A. P. Rittenhouse, Richard Sopris, F. C. Goudy, C. H.
Hackley, Isaac N. Stevens, Thomas Croke, J. P. Ewing,[456]George C. Manly, J. T. Adams, George Ady, D. W. Hart,
Judge Alvin Marsh, C. D. Titus, Supervisor Chase, Otto
Mears, H. Solomon, D. F. Carmichael, Amos Steck, E. S.
Chapman, W. B. Hanscome, R. A. Gurley, C. H. Sage,
Rev. Dr. Tupper, Henry Apple, Herbert George, W. H.
Firth, Egbert Johnson, F. E. Edbrooke, S. K. Hooper,
Thos. G. Anderson, A. D. Shepard, J. S. McGilvray, E. L.
Fox, D. C. Packard, O. Whittemore, David May, Ralph
Voorhees, Senator Cochrane, J. M. Daily, Col. C. J. Clark,
H. L. Morris, Rev. Father Malone, Dr. Blickensderfer, J.
M. Downing, C. M. Hampson, Thomas Nicholas, Judge
Miller, Jerome Riche, J. D. McGilvray, W. H. Milburn,
F. H. Kreuger, L. H. Guldman, W. N. Byers, William M.
Bliss, George H. Graham, Lewis Price, Jay Cook, Jr.,
C. S. Prowitt, S. C. Shepard, O. Carstarphen, Captain J.
T. Smith, and Hugh Butler.
The parade was an imposing and brilliant spectacle, in
charge of Chief Marshal A. H. Jones, assisted by Gen. E.
K. Stimson, Chief of Staff, and the following aides: John
C. Kennedy, Adjutant-General of Colorado; Benjamin F.
Klee, E. J. Brooke, W. H. Conley, John A. McBeth, W.
Y. Sedam, N. G. Dunn, George Ady, Thomas R. Scott,
John Corcoran, B. A. Harbour, Thomas Baldwin, G. G.
Symes, S. A. Shepard, and Robert R. Wright. Over
1,000 G. A. R. comrades were in line, led by George W.
Cook, and several hundred Sons of Veterans, commanded
by Col. C. H. Anderson. The President's carriage, drawn
by six white horses, was escorted by Lieut. Col. A. W.
Hogle and staff. Countless thousands thronged the streets
along the route of the procession. As the column passed the
High School 10,000 scholars and children gave the President
and Mrs. Harrison an enthusiastic greeting. A vast
assemblage awaited the President's arrival at the reviewing
stand, where he was met by the Colorado Pioneers, led
by Maj. William Wise. Governor Routt delivered an
eloquent address of welcome, followed by Mayor Rogers,[457]who portrayed the triumphant struggle and growth of
Denver. President Harrison responded as follows:
Governor Routt, Mr. Mayor, Pioneers of Colorado, Comrades of
the Grand Army[cheers]and Fellow-citizens—This scene is inspiring.
This beautiful city, the fame of which your journeying citizens
have not failed to carry to the far East [laughter and cheers],
has become known to me as we can know by the hearing of the
ear; and I am rejoiced to add to my pleasant impressions of Colorado,
and of its commercial and political capital, that which is
in sight of the eye, which has but deepened and enlarged the
favorable impressions which I brought to your State. It is a marvellous
thing that all we see here is in a State whose existence
dates from the dawn of the second century of our national life.
What a tremendous testimony to the organizing power and energy
of the American people this great State is! That these wastes, so
unpromising to the eye in that early time, should have been invaded
by the restless energy of indomitable men; that they should
have seen in visions that which was to follow their heroic labor
for the development of these hidden resources; that no drought or
drifting sand, no threat of mountain nor of sky, could turn back
these brave-hearted men who had set their faces to pierce and
uncover the hidden riches of these mountains. The pioneers of
Colorado are worthy of honor. Those who have entered into their
labors, who have come not toilsomely but on swift and easy wings
into the heritage that they have opened, should, always and everywhere,
gratefully acknowledge the services of those who made this
easy pathway for their feet. [Cheers.]
Your State is blessed in the diversity of its resources. You do
not depend on any one of the great industries of civilized life.
You have taken from your mines immense stores of the precious
metals, but when these are gone or their supply is diminished you
will turn your eyes toward those metals that we call base, but that
after all enter in so many ways into human life that they supply
more enduring and in the end more profitable industries. Your
iron, and coal, and lead, and building stone will be sources of
income inexhaustible. These valleys, touched by the magical
power of irrigation, will yield to your population abundant food,
and you will yet have within yourselves that happy commercial
condition of a State producing and exchanging within its own
limits nearly all the necessaries of life. [Cheers.] Transportation
is always a burden. The industrial condition is always best when
the producers and the consumers are near together.
I am glad to know that you have not been so busy in delving
into the earth; that you have not so turned your minds to the
precious metal as to have forgotten that there is a blue sky above
you; that there are aspirations, and hopes, and glories that are
greater than all material things. [Cheers.] You have not failed
to make sure that the children, the blessed children of your homes,
that are now coming on, are made secure in the possession of a
well-ordered and of a well-endowed school system. [Cheers.]
What a testimony it is to the American character that, however
intense the push for the things of this life, however eager the
pursuit of gain, you can never assemble a community of 200 people
that they do not begin to organize schools for the children.
[Cheers.] These common schools are not simply nurseries of
intellectual training; they are nurseries of citizenship. [Cheers.]
It has been a most happy sight to see the same old banner that
we bore into the smoke of battle and carried over dying comrades
to place it in triumph on the ramparts of the enemy now in the
hands of the children of Colorado. [Cheers.] Proof has been
made a thousand times—proof will be made whenever the occasion
requires—that, as much as we pursue gain and personal ends, we
have nothing—property or life—that we do not freely lay down
upon the altar of our country for the general good. [Cheers.]
But, my fellow-citizens, this assemblage is too vast, and the
demand upon my time for public speech has been too protracted,
to enable me to pursue these remarks further.
Comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic, survivors of the
great war whose success preserved all that our fathers had devised
and established, whose success brought back this flag in honor and
established it again the undisputed emblem of an indissoluble
Union [cheers], God has bountifully lengthened out your days
that you might catch some glimpse of the glory that has come
from the achievements in which you bore an honorable part. But
only the vision of the prophet reaching out over centuries to come
can catch the full glory of what your deeds have wrought. I give
you to-day a most affectionate greeting [cheers]; I give you a
regretful good-by. May you hold in the community where you
live that respect and honor to which you are entitled. Let no
Grand Army man ever dishonor in civil life the noble record he
made in war. May every blessing follow you, and if it shall not
be in God's dispensation to give you riches, at least, comrades,
you shall die with the glorious satisfaction of having contributed
to the greatest work that man ever wrought for humanity and
good; and, wrapped in the flag you followed, your comrades will,[459]one by one, see that in honored graves your bodies rest until the
resurrection, and that on each returning day of decoration flowers
are strewn upon your graves.
Citizens of Denver, I cannot close without expressing the great
satisfaction and surprise with which I have witnessed this morning
the magnificent commercial developments which have been made
here. These streets, these towering, substantial, and stately houses
in which your commerce is transacted, place you in the front rank
of enterprise. I do not think any city so young can claim so high
a place. [Cheers.] I thank you very sincerely for a demonstration
which I cannot accept as personal—all this is too great for any
man—but as a spontaneous tribute to our free institutions. I
accept this as an evidence that in all essential things we are one
people. The fuller revelation of that fact to us all has been worth
all the labor and time we have mutually expended in this long
journey. In all essential things we are one; we divide and strive
and debate, but we are patriotic American citizens, having a love
for the Constitution and the flag that brings us all at last to submit
our opinion to the lawfully expressed wish of the majority.
[Cheers.]
And now again good-by. I shall leave behind me every good
wish for your prosperity, individually as a municipality and as a
State. [Cheers.]
After a drive over Capitol Hill the President and the
gentlemen of his party were the guests of W. H. Bush at
the Hotel Metropole. Senator Teller presided at luncheon.
Responding to a toast in honor of the President of the
United States, General Harrison said:
Gentlemen—I cannot fail to respond to such a toast. Indeed, I
should be unkind to you and to myself as well if I did not. However,
I cannot speak at length in thanking you for the gracious
hospitality I have received in Denver. I can truly say my visit
has culminated in Denver. For pleasure during my stay here, for
perfection in arrangement, for cordiality, and all things which go
to make a stop pleasant, Denver has given a climax of enjoyment.
It has given me great pleasure to take note of some of the things
which have made this beautiful city here and its recent and massive
developments a wonder to the civilization of to-day. I am apt
to judge the city by the home. That is with me the test, more
than the business buildings, the manufactories, etc. It gives me
great pleasure to state that in all my travels, and they have in[460]cluded
all the States but two, I have never seen a city with such
elegant homes as here. [Cheers.] I am sure, when you have
worked out your silver mines and the more common products,
stone and granite, you will have that which will last you for an
indefinite time, and which will also add to the beauty of your
already beautiful city. [Cheers.]
I have the pleasure of testifying to the satisfaction with which
the party has spent these few days in the Centennial State. I hope
I may have the pleasure of being with you again at some near
future time.
I say good-by, and again express our thanks for your hospitality,
which has been excelled nowhere on our journey. [Cheers.]
ThePresident made his farewell Colorado speech at
Akron at 9 o'clock at night. The Reception Committee
consisted of Hon. D. W. Irwin, R. S. Langley, and J. M.
Aitkin. Upward of 3,000 people welcomed the distinguished
travellers. Colonel Griffith and Gen. L. C. Colby,
Commander Nebraska State Guards, joined the party at
Akron as the representatives of Governor John M. Thayer.
Commander John N. Tague, of Akron Post, G. A. R.,
introduced President Harrison, who said:
My Friends—It is very kind of you to gather here to-night as we
pass by. We have had a very pleasant trip. Our interest in your
State and our appreciation of its great resources have been very
much increased on this visit. I am glad to find—indeed, I knew
I should find—the same people here that we have in Illinois, Indiana,
and Ohio. Most of you come from some of those States, and
you are not new people. I have been very much pleased to notice
that here, as well as in the East, you take deep interest in schools
and in all those things that tend to elevate a community and to
set social order on a firm and secure basis. Allow me to thank
you again, and to bid you good-night. [Cheers.]
Hastings, Nebraska's third city, was reached at 6:30
the morning of the 13th, and notwithstanding the early
hour fully 10,000 people were present to welcome the
President. The Reception Committee consisted of Mayor
A. L. Clarke, Hon. John M. Ragan, C. H. Dietrich, Judge
W. R. Burton, F. H. Firman, W. M. Kerr, General Dilworth,
J. J. Buchanan, R. A. Batty, James B. Heartwell,
A. F. Powers, A. V. Cole, M. Van Fleet, Dr. Johnson, Dr.
J. E. Hilts, A. H. Brown, Dr. Cook, R. B. Wahlquist, and
C. Cameron.
J. N. Clarke delivered the address of welcome and introduced
President Harrison, who said:
My Fellow-countrymen—There is a freshness and a beauty about
the Nebraska prairies, but I hope I will not fall in your esteem if
I say I do not like to get up early. [Shouts, "Neither do we!"]
Occasionally, in our trip, we seem to pick up an hour. When I
retired at Denver last night, at none too early an hour, I was told
that we would be at Hastings at 6:30. But we arrived here, it
seems to me, at 5:20 by the time I went to bed by last night; but,
my friends, all these things that make labor of travel are as nothing
compared with the great gratification we find in such assemblages
as this.
As we journeyed eastward we have seen the arid land where
the water ran in ditches and did not fall in showers. That system
has its advantages and its disadvantages, but I must confess that
it seems more homelike for me to get back to the land where the
showers fall and everything is fresh and green. This diversity of
natural conditions and of agricultural and mineral wealth makes
the greatness of our country. Diversity is found everywhere in
nature, and it is a happy thing. It is found in the field and crop,
but never in the people—any observing man can see that we are
one people. [Cheers.] The people I saw in California, in Arizona,
and all along our journey, were just such people as I see here;
indeed, they were in a strict sense the same people, because they
are Yankees, Pennsylvanians, Wisconsin men, Hoosiers, and
Buckeyes—I think the Ohio man must be here. [Several responses
of "Here we are!"]
The Westerners are the overspill of the enterprising population of[462]the East. They kept going a little farther west, still a little farther,
until at last they touched the Pacific; and so anywhere the
traveller may go, if he will make himself known, the hands of old
neighbors will be stretched out to him. Out of all this comes the
love for the one flag, and I am glad to say that we have not passed
any little way station—even in Arizona, where a few scores had
gathered from distant ranches—but some one with an American
flag was there and American cheers for that flag. Sometimes the
incidents were almost pathetic. At one little station in Arizona,
as we drew up in the darkness, there were half a dozen ranchers
on the platform. I noticed on the lapels of two or three coats the
Grand Army button. One of them shouted, "There are but few of
us, but let us give a cheer for the old flag, boys!" [Cheers.]
I thank you most cordially for your gathering here. I do not
know whether it is prejudice or not, but anyway I always have
a very high opinion of a State whose chief production is corn.
[Laughter and applause.]
AtCrete the President received a musical welcome.
Nedela's band rendered "America," and over 2,000 voices
joined in the chorus. It was a beautiful tribute to patriotism.
Governor Thayer, accompanied by Lieut. Gov. T.
J. Majors, Secretary of State J. C. Allen, Auditor T. H.
Benton, Treasurer J. E. Hill, Atty. Gen. Geo. H. Hastings,
Adjt. Gen. A. V. Cole, Commissioner A. R. Humphry, and
Col. H. E. Palmer, came down from Lincoln and met the
President's party at Crete. The local Reception Committee
consisted of Mayor Norris, ex-Governor Dawes, S. L.
Andrews, Capt. John Sherrill, and H. M. Wells.
Governor Thayer introduced the President, who said:
My Friends—It appears sometimes in the heat of political campaigns
that the American people do not agree upon anything; but
after it is all over we take a broader survey of things and we find
that underneath all these divisions is the bed rock of patriotism.
In that at least we have a common purpose.
I am glad to see these children here this morning. They have
greeted me everywhere with their happy smiles, and they brighten[463]the way quite as much as the flowers that have been given us. It
is pleasant to know that in these pioneer countries you are establishing
common schools in order that the generation which is
coming on may have a better chance than you had. I do not
know of anything better than the father and mother working and
striving that their children may have an easier and better chance
in life than they had. I am very glad to see you all this morning,
and thank you for your cordial welcome. [Cheers.]
Thecapital of Nebraska was reached at 9 o'clock in the
morning and the Lincolnites gave the President a warm
greeting. The State officials, with Mayor Weir and the
following prominent citizens, comprised the Committee of
Reception: Maj. H. C. McArthur, Charles H. Gere, E. E.
Brown, N. S. Harwood, C. M. Parker, C. E. Montgomery,
S. S. Royce, A. H. Weir, J. B. Archibald, W. E. Churchill,
Alva Brown, John D. Wright, Phelps Paine, J. B. Strode,
C. H. Gould, Joseph Teeters, J. J. Imhoff, John H. McClay,
D. W. Mosely, J. H. McMurtry, Professor Bessey, and
Alva Kennard. During the march to the Capitol grounds
the President was escorted by the veterans of Farragut
Post, Martin Howe Commander, and Appomattox Post,
C. W. Lyman Commander. Governor Thayer and Mayor
Weir each delivered an address welcoming the President
to Nebraska and to Lincoln.
Governor Thayer and Mr. Mayor—It will, I think, be entirely
impossible for me to make myself heard by this vast assemblage,
situated as you are here this morning. Our stay with you is
necessarily brief, and yet I do not want you to feel that we have
discriminated against the political capital of one of the very
greatest of the newer States. I have been so pressed with the
engagements which have been suggested to us that I have only
been able to give three-quarters of an hour to Indianapolis, my
own home. I have given you the same, and I had hoped, very[464]much, that this time could be extended and that I would be able
to address you with more comfort to myself and to you.
We are here as American citizens, for common hope and love;
we are here the friends of the flag, of the Constitution, of social
order, of every school, of all that characterizes this Nation and
makes it better than any other nation in the world.
I thank you, most cordially thank you, for this magnificent
demonstration. It has but one fault, and that is it is altogether
too large to be suitably arranged with a view to public speaking.
I hope you will allow me again to thank you very sincerely for
your most cordial and magnificent welcome, and wish for you and
your State all prosperity and for the country of which we are common
citizens a career of unchecked glory. [Cheers.]
As the President was about to depart he was met by a
committee representing the Nebraska Travelling Men's
Association, consisting of President Fred A. Wilson, Secretary
R. M. Simons, and Capt. J. S. Agey, who presented
him with an address of welcome printed on satin in gold.
In accepting the souvenir the President said:
Convey my thanks to the travelling men, for whom I entertain
the kindest regard. I remember them in the last campaign, and
shall always be thankful for the favors extended. I noticed your
body in the parade, and have never seen a finer representation of
the fraternity. [Renewed cheering.]
About2,000 people greeted the President at Ashland.
The school children were assembled at the station under
Superintendent Crabtree. Mayor J. C. Railsback, H. H.
Shedd, S. G. Bryan, Col. J. K. Clarke, R. E. Butler, C. N.
Folsom, M. Newman, W. T. Spere, J. H. Snell, J. H.
Oliver, J. W. Moon, and S. B. Hall, Commander of Bob
McCook Post, G. A. R., welcomed the President, who made
a brief address, as follows:
My Friends—I am very much obliged to you for your cordial
welcome. We pause but for a moment, and it will not be possible
for me to make a speech. You are talking yourselves, and I am[465]sure in very high tones of patriotism, by your display of the
national colors in your own hands and in the hands of the school
children, and by this welcome to one who for the time is placed at
the head of the national Government. I have not accepted what
I have seen on this trip as personal; it is too much for any man.
I accept it as the expression of our people for the love of our flag
and for the institutions which it symbolizes. [Cheers.]
President Harrisonarrived at Omaha Wednesday
noon and was accorded a reception that in numbers and
enthusiasm was scarcely surpassed during the entire trip.
He was met at Lincoln by an escort committee consisting
of Senator Charles F. Manderson, Senator A. S. Paddock,
Hon. J. C. Cowin, ex-Gov. R. B. Furnas, Maj. D. H.
Wheeler, Judge J. M. Thurston, G. W. Willard, W. V.
Morse, D. J. O'Donohue, B. B. Wood, Dr. G. L. Miller, C.
Hartman, Maj. T. S. Clarkson, C. J. Greene, A. J. Poppleton,
Hon. J. E. Boyd, J. H. Millard, Thomas Swobe, A. P.
Hopkins, Max Meyer, W. F. Bechel, and T. J. Lowry.
Arrived at the station the President and his party were
met and welcomed by Mayor R. C. Cushing at the head of
the following committee of prominent citizens: Hon. E.
S. Dundy, E. Wakely, T. J. Mahoney, Dr. J. E. Summers,
L. Berka, W. J. Broatch, Fred Metz, T. L. Kimball, G. M.
Hitchcock, J. A. Creighton, J. F. Coad, C. V. Gallagher,
Herman Kountze, W. A. Paxton, C. S. Chase, G. W. Lininger,
Lee Hartley, Amos Field, H. G. Burt, G. W. Holdrege,
J. E. Kinney, Edward Rosewater, M. V. Gannon,
W. A. L. Gibbon, Henry Pundt, J. B. Furay, J. T. Clarke,
E. A. Cudahy, J. O. Phillippi, F. P. Hanlon, B. S. Baker,
John Peters, W. H. Alexander, Brad Slaughter, W. N.
Nason, Euclid Martin, Henry Yates, J. L. McCague, J.
A. Wakefield, C. L. Chaffee, Julius Meyer, C. E. Burmester,
L. R. Rosaker, James Stephenson, J. M. Woolworth,[466]Charles Ogden, J. S. Webster, Col. Dudley Evans, Richard
Smith, L. D. Fowler, G. M. Nattinger, J. W. Eller, Simon
Bloom, H. H. Benson, Capt. R. S. Wilcox, S. Adamsky, J.
A. Cusadore, O. G. Decker, Charles L. Thomas, M. J.
Feenan, Frank Moores, General Brooke and staff, and
the following city officials: C. S. Goodrich, John Rush,
Lee Helsley, W. S. Shoemaker, Silas Cobb, John Groves,
Geo. W. Tillson, P. W. Birkhauser, Geo. C. Whitlock,
Geo. L. Dennis, A. B. Howatt, Clark Gapan, J. J. Galligan,
Wilber S. Seavey, James Flannery, H. L. Rammacciotti,
James Gilbert, Thomas J. McLean, J. H. Standeven,
Thomas Riley, Thomas Bermingham, Fred Hickstein,
Peter A. Welch, and Frank R. Morrisey.
The ladies on the Reception Committee were Mrs. Alvin
Saunders, Mrs. General Brooke, Mrs. General Wheaton,
Mrs. Judge Dundy, Mrs. Clark Woodman, Mrs. H. W.
Yates, Mrs. E. Rosewater, Mrs. S. S. Caldwell, and Mrs.
Geo. M. O'Brien.
An imposing procession, conducted by Chief Marshal
C. F. Weller, assisted by Jacob Fawcett and Capt. Geo.
Porter, escorted the presidential party to the pavilion near
the Court House, from whence the President reviewed the
column, headed by the Second Regiment U.S. Infantry.
General Frederick, Col. M. V. Sheridan, Colonel Turson,
General Mulcahy, Captain Morseman, Major Potwin,
Colonel Curtis, Colonel Strong, Captain Richardson, Captain
Rhodes, Captain Stickle, Major Luddington, Lieutenant
Jensen, Lieutenant Korty, and other members of the
Loyal Legion, awaited the Commander-in-Chief at the pavilion,
around which a vast concourse assembled. Mayor
Cushing made the welcoming address.
When the demonstration subsided President Harrison
responded as follows:
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—I can accept without question
and with very deep gratitude these cordial words of welcome
which you have spoken on behalf of the people of this great city.[467]Twice before it has been my pleasure to spend a brief time in this
great commercial metropolis of the great Valley of the Missouri.
I have had opportunity, therefore, to witness the rapid development
which your city has made. I recollect it as I saw it in 1881,
and as I see it to-day I feel that I need to be told where I am.
[Applause and cheers.]
These magnificent structures dedicated to commerce, these magnificent
churches lifting their spires toward the heavens, these
many school-houses consecrated to the training of those who shall
presently stand in our places to be responsible for these our public
institutions, these great stock-yards, where the meat product of
the great meat-producing States of the Missouri Valley is prepared
for market, and, above all and crowning all, these thousands of
happy, comfortable homes which characterize and constitute your
great city are a marvel and tribute to the enterprise and power of
development of the American people, unsurpassed, I think, by any
city in the United States. [Cheers.]
As I turn my face now toward Washington, as I hasten on to
take up public duties partially laid aside during this journey, I
rejoice to receive here in Omaha that same kindly greeting with
which we were welcomed as we journeyed from Washington
through the South to the Pacific. If anything were needed to call
for a perfect surrender of all personal thought in an absolute consecration
of public duty to the general good of all our people, I
have found it in these magnificent demonstrations. [Cheers.] We
shall always have parties—it is characteristic of free people—we
need to have party divisions, debate, and political contention; but
it is pleasant to observe in all this journey we have taken how
large a stock of common patriotism we find in all the people.
[Cheers.]
You have here in Nebraska a State of magnificent capabilities.
I have seen the orange grove, and all those fruits which enrich
and characterize the State of California. I have seen Leadville,
the summit city, these mining camps upon the peaks where men
are delving into the earth to bring out the riches stored there, but
I return again to the land of the cornstalk with an affection that
I cannot describe. [Cheers.]
I am sure these friends who have delighted us with the visions
of loveliness and prosperity will excuse me if my birth and early
training in Ohio and Indiana leads me to the conclusion that the
States that raise corn are the greatest States in the world. [Cheers.]
We have a surplus production in these great valleys for which
we must seek foreign markets. It is pleasant to know that 90 per[468]cent. or more of our agricultural productions are consumed by our
own people. I do not know how soon it may be that we shall
cease to be dependent upon any foreign market for our farm products.
With the rapid development which is being made in manufacturing
pursuits, with the limitation which the rapid occupation
of our public domain now brings to our minds as to the increase
of agriculture, it cannot be a very distant day when the farmer
shall realize the ideal condition and find a market out of his own
farm wagon for what he produces.
It has been a source of constant thought and zealous effort on
the part of the Administration at Washington to secure larger foreign
markets for our farm products. I rejoice that in the last two
years some of those obstructions which hindered the free access of
our meat products to American markets have been removed. I
rejoice to know that we have now freer, larger access for our
meats to the markets of England and of Europe than we have had
in many years. [Applause.] I rejoice to know that this has
brought better prices to the stock-raisers of these great western
valleys. I believe, under the provision looking to reciprocal trade
in the law of the last Congress, that we shall open yet larger and
nearer markets for the products of Nebraska farmers. [Cheers.]
So distant as you are from the Atlantic seaboard, it may have
seemed to you that your interest in the revival of our trade, in the
re-establishment of an American merchant marine, was not perceptible
or direct.
Not long since an inquiry was made as to the origin of the
freight that was carried by one of the Brazilian steamers from the
port of New York, and it was found that twenty-five States had
made contribution to that cargo, and among those States was the
State of Nebraska. [Cheers.] And so by such methods as we can
it is our purpose to enlarge our foreign markets for the surplus
productions of our great country. And we hope—and we think
this hope fills the great West as well as the East—that when this
increased traffic and commerce is found upon the sea it shall be
carried in American bottoms. [Cheers.]
A few days ago, sailing in the harbor of San Francisco, I saw
three great deep-water ships enter the Golden Gate. One carried
the flag of Hawaii and two the British flag, and at Portland they
took the pains to tow up from the lower harbor and to deck in
bunting an American ship that was lying in the harbor. It was a
curious sight—one they thought important to exhibit to strangers
visiting that city. Why, my countrymen, I hope the day is not
far distant when the sight of great American ships flying the Stars[469]and Stripes at the fore will be familiar not only in our own ports,
but in every busy mart of commerce the world around. [Cheers.]
This Government of ours cannot do everything for everybody.
The theory of our Government is large individual liberty. It is
that we shall take out of the way all legislative obstructions to the
free and honest pursuit of all human industries; that each individual
shall in his own place have the best chance possible to develop
the highest prosperity for himself and his family.
Some functions are lodged with our Government. It must provide
a currency for the use of our people, for I believe the time
has gone by when we will be content to return to the old system
of an issue of money by State banks. But I will not discuss such
questions. I only desire to say this—which is common ground
upon which we can all stand—that whatever money the Government
issues, paper or coin, must be good money. [Cheers.]
I have an idea that every dollar we issue should be as good as
any dollar we issue, for, my countrymen, whenever we have any
money, paper or coin, the first errand that dollar does is to pay
some workingman for his daily toil. No one so much as the
laboring man and the farmer requires a full value dollar of permanent
value the year around. [Cheers.]
But, my countrymen, I had not intended to speak so long. I
hope I have not intruded upon any ground of division. I am talking,
not as a partisan, but as an American citizen, desiring by every
method to enhance the prosperity of all our people; to have this great
Government in all that it undertakes touch with beneficence and
equal hands the pursuits of the rich and of the poor. [Cheers.]
Nothing has been so impressive in all this journey as the magnificent
spirit of patriotism which pervades our people. I have seen
enough American flags to wrap the world around. [Great applause
and cheers.]
The school children have waved it joyously to us, and many a
time in some lonesome country home on the bleak sand I have seen
a man or woman or a little boy come to the door of a cabin as we
hurried by waving the starry banner in greeting to our train. I
am sure, as your Mayor has said, that this same magnificent, patriotic,
American spirit pervades you all here to-day.
God bless you all; prosper you in every endeavor; give glory
and increase to your city, and settle all its institutions upon a
secure basis of social order and obedience to the law. [Great
cheering.]
On concluding the formal reception the President and
his party became the guests of Hon. E. Rosewater, editor
and proprietor of the OmahaDaily Bee, and after inspecting
the editorial rooms the President held a reception in
the rotunda of theBeebuilding. This was followed by a
ride over the city, escorted by the Reception Committee.
As thecortégepassed the High-School grounds 20,000
children and adults gave the President a most patriotic
greeting.
Halting in front of the building, the President arose in
his carriage and said:
It gives me great pleasure to receive this cordial greeting from
the teachers and pupils of the Omaha public schools. The most
pleasant features of this journey have been the beautiful and cordial
receptions given us by the school children. I am pleased to
notice the magnificent system of schools you have here in Omaha—part
of a system that had its origin in New England and now
extends over this entire country, the mainstay of this great Government.
A number of years ago I was standing upon the banks
of the headwaters of the Missouri River, where its waters are pure
and limpid, but after passing through the bad lands of Dakota
the waters of the mighty river become contaminated and impure,
as you see it rolling by your beautiful city. Let me hope that
none of you, my little friends, will ever become tainted by contact
with the bad lands of experience as you journey through life on to
manhood and womanhood. God bless you all; good-by.
At the conclusion of these remarks General Harrison
was apprised that a mistake had been made in halting at
the entrance, as the children were unable to either hear or
see him. Upon learning this the President immediately
alighted and made his way with some difficulty to the
platform, where he addressed the children, saying:
My Little Friends—You do not feel half as badly as I do at the
thought that I made my speech intended for you to your papas
and mammas. I have not the time to attempt to repeat it, but I
can't get away without telling you of the affectionate interest I[471]have in all the children of this great country. Bless you—you are
the blossoms of our homes. With a good-by and another God bless
you I am off. [Great cheering.]
A shortstop was made at Council Bluffs, where several
thousand people greeted the party. Owing to the brief
time allowed by the schedule no committees were appointed,
but the veterans of Abe Lincoln Post, G. A. R., Dr. F. S.
Thomas Commander, greeted the party. Hon. Joseph R.
Reed made a brief welcoming address.
My Friends—It gives me great pleasure to thank you for this
cordial greeting as we cross the river. I was not anticipating a
meeting here or any call for an address. I see about me some of
my old comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic, and I want
to give them a comrade's greeting. I have seen them everywhere;
even out on the sands of Arizona I found them gathered together,
and it has always been a pleasure to meet them. [Cheers.]
Thetown of Shenandoah was illuminated in honor of
the President's visit. The travellers were welcomed by
Mayor H. S. Nichols, Hon. Benjamin Todd, C. M. Conway,
W. H. Harrison, R. W. Morse, C. S. Keenan, Capt. C. V.
Mount, and the veterans of Burnside Post, G. A. R., commanded
by C. P. Coleneous.
The President, responding to cheers from the large
crowd, said:
My Friends—It gives me great pleasure to see you and to receive
from you this hearty greeting. Our schedule is so close that we
can tarry only a moment with you, and therefore I can only say
thank you and good-by. [Cheers.]
Itwas 11P.M.when the train made its first stop in
Missouri, at Maryville, where an unusually large crowd
greeted the President. The welcoming committee consisted
of Judge Lafayette Dawson, Ira K. Alderman,
James Todd, W. C. Pierce, H. E. Robinson, and Lyman
Parcher.
When the cheering subsided President Harrison said:
My Friends—This multitude is a great surprise. I have already
spoken six or seven times to-day, and am very much fatigued, so
that I shall not attempt to speak. Indeed, my time is so close
that I can tarry but a moment. But I would be untrue to myself
if I did not acknowledge this most magnificent demonstration. I
thank you most sincerely for your kindness and bid you good-night.
Aboutthe earliest reception on the great journey
occurred at Hannibal, which was reached at 5:30
the morning of the 14th. Notwithstanding the hour,
5,000 people gave the President an enthusiastic welcome.
Secretary Rusk and Postmaster-General Wanamaker
appeared on the platform with General Harrison.
The Reception Committee comprised Capt. John E. Catlett,
C. P. Heywood, J. J. Kirkland, Smith Alexander,
Lewis Jackson, W. H. Dulany, Edward Price, S. J. Miller,
James C. Gill, J. H. McVeigh, John T. Leighter, J.
H. Pelhem, W. E. Chamberlain, J. H. Boughton, Thomas
H. Bacon, G. O. Bishop, S. W. Philips, and W. F. Drescher.
The veterans of W. T. Sherman Post, G. A. R., W.
H. Davis Commander, and several hundred school children
were conspicuous in the reception.
My Fellow-citizens—I have only time to assure you that I appreciate
very highly this evidence of your respect. We have ex[473]tended
our journey to the Pacific coast: we have crossed the sandy
plain, where for days together the eye saw little to refresh it, where
the green of the blue grass that is so restful to the eye was wanting,
and yet again and again at some lone station in the desert a
few children from a school and some of the enterprising people
who had pushed out there to make new homes assembled with this
old banner in their hands and gave us a hearty American welcome.
I am glad to return to this central body of States in which I was
raised; glad to be again in the land of the buckeye, the beech, and
the maple. To these dear children I want to say one word of
thanks. They have done for us much on this journey to make it
pleasant; their bright faces have cheered us; I love to see them.
The care the States are taking for their education is wisely bestowed.
God bless them all; open to their feet pleasant ways and
qualify them better than we have been in our generation to uphold
and perpetuate these magnificent civil institutions. Thanking you
most sincerely for this kindly demonstration I bid you good-by.
[Great cheers.]
Briefstops were made at Barry, Baylis, Griggsville,
and Jacksonville, but not long enough for speech-making.
Thousands of visitors from neighboring towns helped the
people of Springfield welcome the President on his arrival
at 9:15 o'clock. The Committee of Reception that met
the presidential party and escorted them through the principal
streets to the Lincoln Monument in Oak Ridge
Cemetery consisted of the Hon. Joseph W. Fifer, Governor
of Illinois; Senator Shelby M. Cullum, Senator John M.
Palmer, ex-Governor Oglesby, Representatives Henderson
and Springer, Lieut.-Gov. L. B. Ray, Secretary of State J.
N. Pearson, Auditor of State C. W. Pavey, Treasurer of
State E. S. Wilson, Atty.-Gen. George Hunt, Adjt-Gen.
J. W. Vance, Hon. Rheuna D. Lawrence, Mayor of Springfield,
and Hon. James C. Conkling; also, Hon. John M.
Clark and Col. E. D. Swain, of Chicago.
The procession, composed of Illinois National Guards,
veterans of the G. A. R., Sons of Veterans, Knights of
Pythias, and the City Fire Department, was marshalled
by Gen. Jasper N. Reese, assisted by Col. J. H. Barkley.
During the exercises at the monument Mayor Lawrence
presided. Governor Fifer delivered an eloquent address
of welcome, to which the President made the following
response:
Governor Fifer and Fellow-citizens—During this extended journey,
in the course of which we have swept from the Atlantic coast to
the Golden Gate, and northward to the limits of our territory, we
have stood in many spots of interest and looked upon scenes that
were full of historical associations and of national interest and inspiration.
The interest of this journey culminates to-day as we
stand here for a few moments about the tomb of Lincoln. As I
passed through the Southern States and noticed those great centres
of busy industry which had been builded since the war, as I saw
how the fires of furnaces had been kindled where there was once
a solitude, I could not then but think and say that it was the hand
that now lies beneath these stones that kindled and inspired all
that we beheld; all these fires of industry were lighted at the
funeral pyre of slavery. The proclamation of Abraham Lincoln
can be read on all those mountain sides where free men are now
bending their energies to the development of States that had long
been under the paralysis of human slavery.
I come to-day to this consecrated and sacred spot with a heart
filled with emotions of gratitude that that God who wisely turned
toward our Eastern shores a body of God-fearing and liberty-loving
men to found this republic did not fail to find for us in the hour
of our extremity one who was competent to lead the hearts and
sympathies and hold up the courage of our people in the time of
our greatest national peril.
The life of Abraham Lincoln teaches more useful lessons than
any other character in American history. Washington stands remote
from us. We think of him as dignified and reserved, but we
think of Lincoln as one whose tender touch the children, the poor—all
classes of our people—felt at their firesides and loved. The love
of our people is drawn to him because he had such a great heart—such
a human heart. The asperities and hardships of his early life
did not dull, but broadened and enlivened, his sympathies. That
sense of justice, that love of human liberty which dominated all[475]his life, is another characteristic that our people will always love.
You have here in keeping a most precious trust. Toward this
spot the feet of the reverent patriots of the years to come will bend
their way. As the story of Lincoln's life is read his virtues will
mould and inspire many lives.
I have studied it and have been filled with wonder and admiration.
His life was an American product; no other soil could have
produced it. The greatness of it has not yet been fully discovered
or measured. As the inner history of the times in which he lived
is written we find how his great mind turned and moved, in time
of peril and delicacy, the affairs of our country in their home and
foreign relations with that marvellous tact, with that never-failing
common-sense which characterized this man of the people. And
that impressive lesson we have here this morning. I see in the
military uniform of our country, standing as guards about this
tomb, the sons of a race that had been condemned to slavery and
was emancipated by his immortal proclamation. And what an
appropriate thing it is that these whose civil rights were curtailed
even in this State are now the trusted, affectionate guards of the
tomb in which he sleeps!
We will all again and again read the story of Lincoln's life, and
will find our hearts and minds enlarged, our loves and our charities
broadened, and our devotion to the Constitution, the flag, and
the free Government which he preserved to us, intensified. And
now, my friends, most cordially do I thank you for these kind
words of welcome. I shall go from this tomb impressed with new
thoughts as to the responsibilities of those who bear the responsibilities,
though in less troublous times, of that great man to
whose memory my soul bows this morning. [Applause.]
When the President closed he was presented by Governor
Fifer, on behalf of the citizens of Petersburg, Ill., with
a gold-headed cane made from the Lincoln store building
at New Salem. Speeches were made by Postmaster-General
Wanamaker and Secretary Rusk, during which the
President and Governor Fifer proceeded to the State
House, where a large crowd collected and the President
made the following address:
My Fellow-citizens—I feel that we make a very poor return to you
here for your cordial welcome, and for these extensive prepara[476]tions
which you have made to do us honor, but this journey has
been so long, the time consumed already so great, the demand for
my presence in Washington is such that I cannot protract the stay
here with you this morning. I beg all to believe that most heartily
and sincerely I thank you for this cordial welcome from Illinois,
for the interesting moments that we have spent about the tomb of
that man who would have made the fame of Illinois imperishable
and Springfield the Mecca for patriotic feet if no other man in the
history of the State had ever come to eminence—Abraham Lincoln.
[Cheers.] In his life you have a treasury of instruction for your
children, a spring of inspiration for your people that will be lasting.
[Cheers.]
Decaturtendered the President an enthusiastic greeting.
Ten thousand citizens and school children participated
in the welcoming demonstrations. The Committee
of Reception consisted of Mayor Chambers, Hon. S. S. Jack,
Hon. W. C. Johns, Dr. John T. Hubbard, Dr. William A.
Barnes, W. H. Bramble, Maj. F. L. Hays, M. F. Kanan,
Mrs. W. B. Chambers, Mrs. J. M. Clokey, Mrs. W. F. Calhoun,
and Miss Belle Burrows. Hon. J. H. Rowell, of
Bloomington, was also a member of the committee.
In response to Mayor Chambers' welcoming address
President Harrison said:
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—We have been now something
more than four weeks traversing this broad and beautiful domain
which, without regard to State lines, we call our country. We
have passed with such rapidity that our intercourse with the people
has necessarily been brief and attended by many inconveniences to
them. Everything that kind hearts could do to make the trip
pleasant to us has been done, and yet I have always felt that our
hasty call at these prosperous cities where so much pains have been
taken in decoration to do honor to us gives us opportunity to make
very inadequate returns to them. We have been shooting like a
meteor as to rapidity, but without its luminosity. [Laughter.][477]It is very pleasant after seeing California, Arizona, Idaho, and
Colorado, States in which the annual rainfall is inadequate to the
annual crops, and where the dependence of the husbandman is
wholly upon irrigation, to come again in these Central States,
familiar to me from my boyhood, to see crops that the Lord
waters in every season. The land of the blue grass is the land of
my love. Nowhere can there be seen fairer landscapes, nowhere
richer farms, than here in your own great State of Illinois, a State
whose history has been full of illustrious achievements, rich in possibilities,
where lived our illustrious sons; a State whose population
is intelligent, contented, orderly, and liberty-loving; a State
whose development has not yet begun to approach its possible
limits; a State having advantages by the location, swept as it is
by two of the great waterways of the continent, advantages of
access and markets by lake and rail and river unexcelled by any
State in the Union; a State that has not forgotten that the permanence
of our free institutions depends upon the intelligence of the
people, and has carefully, at the very beginning, laid a foundation
for a common-school system in which every man's child may
have a free education. [Cheers.] These are not simply schools of
intelligence, but, as I have said before, they are schools of statesmanship.
They tend as much as any other public institution to
make our people a Nation of loving people. Here on these benches
and on this playground the people of rich and poor mingle together,
and the pampered son gets his airs rubbed off with the vigor of
his playmates. ["That's so!" and cheers.] Our Government does
not undertake to regulate many of the affairs of civil life. The
bright blue sky of hope is above every boy's head, affording great
opportunities for advancement, and then our people are left to
themselves. Certain great duties are devolved upon the Government—to
provide revenue and finance and in every branch of
public interest to legislate in the general interests of all the people.
I thank you most heartily for this great demonstration. We leave
you with our thanks, our best wishes for your State, your city,
and especially for these dear little ones from your schools who
come to greet us. [Applause.]
AtTuscola another large assemblage greeted the travellers
most enthusiastically. The Committee of Reception
consisted of Mayor Patrick C. Sloan, A. W. Wallace, J. J.
Knox, Frank Pearce, Dr. S. V. Ramsey, O. H. Sloan, Hans
Heurichs, A. C. Sluss, J. W. King, P. M. Moore, D. A.
Conover, and Col. W. Taggart.
In response to a hasty but cordial welcome from Mayor
Sloan the President said:
My Fellow-citizens—It is very kind of you to assemble here in
such large numbers to extend to us a greeting as we hurry through
your beautiful State. We can tarry with you but for a moment,
for we are in true sense pilgrims. It is pleasant to look in your
faces and to read there the same kindly thoughts and the same
friendliness that seems to have covered this whole land as we have
journeyed through it. I do not like to say anything anywhere that
makes a line of division; for I know that these assemblages are
without regard to politics, and that men of all parties have extended
to us a cordial greeting. The flag, the institutions, and the
general good of our people are themes which we appreciate, are
themes which we honor, though we may approach them on different
lines. I am glad to notice as I journey through your State the
evidences of a coming harvest that I hope will be bountiful.
Wishing for you every good, I bid you good-by. [Cheers.]
AtChrisman the President met with another hearty
welcome. More than 6,000 people were present, many
coming from Paris, Danville, and other neighboring points.
The Reception Committee consisted of J. F. Van Voorhees,
C. E. Kenton, C. A. Smith, and Revs. Wiley and
Wilkin. Kenesaw Post, G. A. R., of Paris, Ill., J. M.
Moody Commander, and a number of veterans from Ridge
Farm were present.
Mr. Van Voorhees introduced the President, who spoke
as follows:
My Friends—I have but one message for all these vast assemblies
of my fellow-citizens who have been greeting us for something
more than a month at every point where we have stopped. That
message is to thank you for all these greetings and for the friendliness
which shines in your faces. I am glad this is a Government
by the people, because they are the most capable governors that
can be found. No man can traverse this country, as I have done,
from the Potomac to the Golden Gate and from the Golden Gate to
the cities that open on Puget Sound, to the great North Sea, and
can look into the faces of these people that come from every pursuit,
without feeling that this Government, raised upon the bulwark
of patriotism, is, by God's goodness, a perpetual institution. The
patriotism of our people, their unselfish love for the flag, the great
good-nature with which they lay aside all sharp party divisions and
come together under one banner, is very gratifying to us all. Our
trip has been attended by many incidents that have been full of
pleasure and sometimes full of pathos.
We have never lost sight of the flag in all this journey. Sometimes
out on the Great American Desert, as it used to be called,
where nothing but the sage brush gave evidence of the power of
nature to clothe the earth, from a little dug-out, where some man
had set out to make a home for himself, would float the starry
banner. [Cheers.]
This is a great country, girded around by the Grand Army of the
Republic. I have never been out of the fellowship of that great
organization. I have never stopped on all this trip but some comrade
did not stretch up his hand to greet me. I have evidence
that some of you are here to-day in this great State, such a magnificent
contribution to the Grand Army that they were. I am glad
to see these children. They have added grace and beauty to every
meeting which we have had in this long journey. Cherish it in
your community—this most beneficial institution—the common
school of your State.
And now, thanking your kindly welcome, and sorry that we can
tarry for only these few minutes, I bid you good-by, and God bless
you. [Prolonged cheering.]
Itwas about 3P.M.Thursday when the train crossed
the Indiana line and arrived at Montezuma, where the
President was met by a very large and enthusiastic delegation
from Indianapolis, headed by Gov. Alvin P. Hovey,
Mayor Thomas L. Sullivan, Gen. Lew Wallace, ex-Gov.
Isaac P. Gray, Judge William A. Woods, ex-Senator McDonald,
and Senator David Turpie. The escort from Indianapolis
included representatives from 52 labor organizations,
from each G. A. R. post in the city, and delegates
from the Hendricks, Gray, Cleveland, Columbia, Marion,
Metropolitan, and Tippecanoe clubs. The Montezuma
committee consisted of Rev. Thomas Griffith, Joseph
Burns, T. A. Welshan, J. E. Johnston, N. S. Wheeler, and
H. B. Griffith.
No meeting could have been more cordial. Hon. James
T. Johnston, of Rockville, in a few eloquent sentences welcomed
the President and Mrs. Harrison on their home-coming.
The greeting overcame the President for a few moments,
and he was unable to respond to the demand for a speech
at any length. He said:
My Friends—We have had a long journey, and one that has been
attended by a great many pleasant incidents. We have had cheers
of welcome reaching from our first stop, at Roanoke, Va., stretching
across the mountains of Tennessee and Northern Georgia and
Alabama, down through Arkansas and Texas, and along the Pacific
coast. Everywhere we have had the most cordial and kindly
greeting; but as I cross to-day the border line of Indiana and meet
again these old friends I find in your welcome a sweetness that
exceeds it all.
At this point tears came to the President's eyes, and his
utterance became so choked he could say no more.
Promptlyon schedule time, at 4:45, the presidential
train arrived at Indianapolis. Its approach was heralded
by an artillery salute. The stay in the city was limited
to forty-five minutes. The Escort and Reception Committee—in
addition to the distinguished officials mentioned
at Montezuma—consisted in part of the following
prominent citizens: Hon. R. B. F. Peirce, Hon. C. W.
Fairbanks, Rev. M. L. Haines, Daniel Stewart, Col. Eli
Lilly, George L. Knox, George G. Tanner, President of
the Board of Trade; W. D. Wiles, John W. Murphy,
George E. Townley, Silas T. Bowen, W. B. Holton, John
M. Shaw, Albert Gall, I. S. Gordon, John P. Frenzel,
D. A. Richardson, W. F. C. Golt, Arthur Gillet, John
H. Holliday, Dr. Henry Jameson, Robert Kipp, Thomas
C. Moore, V. K. Hendricks, Charles E. Hall, Nathan
Morris, E. E. Perry, Smiley N. Chambers, G. B. Thompson,
Franklin Landers, and R. K. Syfers.
The preparations for the President's reception were upon
an extensive scale; the business houses were covered with
bunting, and pictures of the distinguished traveller were
seen everywhere. Fully 50,000 people participated in the
welcome home. A speakers' stand was erected in Jackson
Place. The parade was a most successful feature of the
demonstration; thousands of veterans, sons of veterans,
and other citizens were in line. Gen. Fred Knefler was
Marshal of the day, aided by the following staff: Major
Holstein, George W. Spahr, J. Hauch, John V. Parker,
J. B. Heywood, W. O. Patterson, Samuel Laing, J. A.
Wildman, H. C. Adams, A. W. Hendricks, John W.
Keeling, Charles Martindale, W. H. Tucker, J. M. Paver,
H. C. Cale, Josh Zimmerman, T. S. Rollins, E. S. Kise,
O. P. Ensley, Frank Sherfey, and Berry Robinson.
Cheer after cheer went up from the vast concourse as[482]the President made his way to the stand, accompanied by
Secretary Rusk, Postmaster-General Wanamaker, and the
Escort Committee. It was a genuine Hoosier welcome.
Governor Hovey made a brief but feeling address, welcoming
the President's return with "pride and pleasure."
Mayor Sullivan followed the Governor in a warm greeting
on behalf of the citizens of Indianapolis.
President Harrison was visibly affected at the manifestations
of love and esteem, and during the speech-making
clearly betrayed the emotion he felt at the cordiality of
his welcome. He spoke as follows:
Governor Hovey, Mayor Sullivan and Friends—I do not think I
can speak much to-day. The strain of this long journey, the frequent
calls that have been made upon me to speak to my fellow
citizens from Washington to the Golden Gate, from the Golden
Gate to the Straits of Fuca, and from the most northwestern portion
of our territory here to my own home, has left me somewhat
exhausted in body and in mind, and has made my heart so open
to these impressions, as I greet my old home friends, that I cannot,
I fear, command myself sufficiently to speak to you at any length.
Our path has been attended by the plaudits of multitudes; our way
has been strewn with flowers; we have journeyed through the
orchards of California, laden with its golden fruit; we have
climbed to the summit of great mountains and have seen those
rich mines from which the precious metals are extracted; we have
dropped again suddenly into fruitful valleys, and our pathway has
been made glad by the cheerful and friendly acclaim of our American
fellow-citizens without regard to any party division [applause];
but I beg to assure you that all the sweetness of the flowers that
have been showered upon us, that all the beauty of these almost
tropical landscapes upon which we have looked, that all the richness
of these precious mines sink into forgetfulness as I receive to
day this welcome from my old friends. [Great applause.] My
manhood has known no other home but this. It was the scene of
my early struggles; it has been the scene, and you have been the
instruments and supporters in every success I have achieved in
life. I come to lay before you to-day my thankful offering for
your friendly helpfulness that was extended to me as a boy and
that has been mine in all the years of our intercourse that have
intervened until this hour. [Applause.] I left you a little more
than two years ago to take up the work of the most responsible[483]office in the world. I went to these untried duties sustained by
your helpful friendliness. I come to you again after these two
years of public office to confess many errors, but to say to you that
I have had but one thought in my mind. It was to use whatever
influence had been confided to me for the general good of all our
people. [Applause.] Our stay to-day is so brief that I must deny
myself the pleasure I would have in taking these old friends by
the hand. God bless you all. I have not forgotten, I can never
forget, Indianapolis. [Prolonged applause.] I look forward to it,
if my life shall be spared, as the city in which I shall rest when
the hard work of life is done. I rejoice in its increase, in its
development as a commercial centre. I love its homes, its people;
and now if you will pardon me the effort of further speech and
believe me when I say this is a most interesting and tender moment
to me, allow me to say to you for a time, God bless you
every one and good-by. [Great cheering.]
AtRichmond, Ind., a very large and enthusiastic assemblage
cheered the President. The Reception Committee
consisted of Mayor Perry J. Freeman, Hon. Henry U.
Johnson, C. C. Binkley, John Harrington, Everett A.
Richey, Andrew F. Scott, J. H. Macke, John H. Nicholson,
Col. John F. Miller, Capt. J. Lee Yaryan, Dr. J. R.
Weist, E. D. Palmer, H. C. Starr, Frank J. Brown, J. B.
Howes, and Isaac Jenkins.
Congressman Johnson introduced the President, who
said:
My Fellow-citizens—We are now about completing a very long
journey. For something more than four weeks we have been
speeding across the country, from the Potomac to the Golden Gate,
and northward along Puget Sound. The trip, while it has been
full of pleasurable incidents, while it has been attended with
every demonstration of friendliness and respect, has, as you can
well understand, been full of labor. I began this day—and it is
only a sample of many—at 5 o'clock this morning, by speaking to
my fellow-citizens at Hannibal, Mo., and from that place to this
I have been almost continuously on my feet or shaking hands over[484]this platform with friends who had gathered there. We have seen
regions that were new to me, people that were strangers, and yet,
throughout the whole of this journey we have been pervaded, surrounded,
inspired by the magnificent spirit of American patriotism.
[Cheers.] I come now to pass through my own State. I
have so often within the last two years been at Indianapolis and
passed through Richmond that I did not expect you would take
any special notice of our passage to-night. I am all the more gratified
that you should have surprised us by this magnificent demonstration.
As I had occasion to say at Indianapolis, the respect, the
confidence, the affectionate interest of my Indiana friends is more
valuable to me than anything else in life. I went from you two
years ago to new duties, borne down with a sense of the great
responsibility that was upon me, and I am glad to believe from
what I see to-night that I have at least saved the respect and
friendship of my Indiana fellow-citizens. [Cries of "That's so!"
and cheers.] And now, as I return again to labors and duties that
are awaiting me, I leave with you my most affectionate greeting
and sincere desire for the prosperity of Indiana and all its citizens.
I hope that my life will be spared to be once more a dweller in
this great State. [Cheers.]
A greatassembly, numbering over 10,000 people,
greeted the President on arrival at Dayton, Ohio, at 9
o'clock. The veterans of "The Old Guard Post", Parker
Rusby Commander, were present in a body; also many
veterans from Dister Post, Hiram Strong Post, Birch, and
Martin De Lancy posts, together with a large representation
of the Sons of Veterans. Among the prominent citizens
and ladies who received the presidential party were
Mrs. W. D. Bickham, Miss Rebecca Strickel, Charles and
Daniel Bickham, Hon. Ira Crawford, Hon. Washington
Silzel, Wm. P. Callahan, Fred G. Withoft, Dr. J. M.
Weaver, E. B. Lyon, Dr. J. S. Beck, C. M. Hassler, A. L.
Bauman, Dr. Joseph E. Lowes, B. T. Guion, Henry Kissinger,
Hon. Dennis Dwyer, E. F. Pryor, Charles P. Garman,
D. K. Hassler, Charles Auderton, N. D. Bates, John[485]A. Miller, John A. Bell, C. Y. Osborn, Joseph S. Crane,
Ed. Best, Daniel E. Meade, Samuel Craighead, Warren
Munger, H. C. Harries, G. C. Kennedy, William Craighead,
A. A. Simonds, S. Brenner, D. F. Giddinger, Simon
Gebhart, George La Rue, D. E. McSherry, Charles
James John Patterson, Dr. J. A. Walters, and Rev. Dr.
A. A. Willett.
The President's appearance was the signal for a prolonged
outburst of patriotic feeling, in recognition and
response to which he spoke as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—We have journeyed now about nine thousand
miles, and I have never been, in all this distance, out of sight of
an Ohio man. [Laughter and cheers.] Everywhere we have
journeyed, whether in the New South, awakening under the new
influences of freedom to an industrial life that was not possible
under slavery; whether on the deserts of Arizona or among the
orange groves of California, or in one of those wonderful States
that have been builded within the last few years on Puget Sound,
some one, noting the fact that I was Ohio-born, would claim kin-ship,
and so far as I could judge, in my limited observation of
them, I think they carried the Ohio faculty with them to their
new homes of getting their fair share of things. [Laughter and
cheers.] I do most cordially thank you, citizens of Dayton, for
this pleasant and friendly demonstration. I cannot talk long.
This whole journey has been a succession of speeches. I have
come to think it must be tiresome to you to have one of my
speeches every morning with your breakfast coffee. [Cries of
"No! no!" and applause.] But it has been a most cheerful thing
to me to observe everywhere, even in those distant and sparsely
settled regions of the West, that the American flag was never out
of sight. I do not think I have ever lost sight of the Stars and
Stripes since we left Washington. [Cheers.] Several times we
have been deeply touched as we moved along over the sandy plains
to see at some isolated and very humble cabin a man or child step
to the door and unfurl the Starry Banner. [Cheers.] Everywhere
I have met comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic, everywhere
the atmosphere seemed to be pervaded by a magnificent
spirit of Americanism. [Cheers.] We are one people—one in our
purposes, aims and lives; one in our fealty to the flag, the Constitution,
and the indissoluble Union of the States. [Cheers.]
Ohio has always maintained a magnificently conspicuous place
in the sisterhood of the States—peopled, as she was, by the great
patriots of the Revolutionary period; receiving, as she did, in this
great basin, that overspill of patriotism that moved toward the West
after the Revolutionary struggle was ended. She has given to the
Government, in army life and in the civil service, a magnificent
galaxy of great men. [Cheers.] In the hope that this journey,
which has been full of toil, may not prove unprofitable to the
people, as it certainly has not been unprofitable to me, I leave you
to take up my public duties with new encouragement and new resolves
to do the best I can for all the people. [Cheers.]
Itwas nearly 10 o'clock when the city of Xenia was
reached, but a large crowd greeted the tired travellers.
A reception committee, consisting of Hon. Charles F.
Howard, Mayor; Hon. John Little, Hon. N. A. Fulton,
Hon. George Good, Charles L. Spencer, and F. E. James
escorted the party from Dayton.
Judge Little introduced President Harrison, who said:
My Friends—I began my day's work at 5 o'clock and have
already made ten speeches, but I feel that a few spoken words are
but small return to those who have gathered to express their
friendly regard. No man is worthy to hold office in this Republic
who does not sincerely covet the good-will and respect of the
people. The people may not agree in their views on public questions,
but while they have a great many points of difference they
have more of agreement, and I believe we are all pursuing the
same great end—the glory of our country, the permanency of our
institutions, and the general good of our people. The springs of
all good government—the most important things after all—are in
the local communities. In the townships, school districts, and
municipalities, there the utmost care should be taken. If their
affairs are wisely and economically administered, those of the State
and the Nation are sure to be. Upon these foundation stones the
safety of the Nation rests, and I am glad to know that so much
careful thought is being given to these questions by public men
and the people generally. Thanking you for your attendance and
cordial greeting. I bid you good-night. [Cheers.]
Itlacked but fifteen minutes of midnight when the
train rolled into the Union Depot at Columbus. Notwithstanding
the lateness of the hour a fair-sized and enthusiastic
crowd was present, including a number of G. A. R.
veterans.
In response to repeated calls the President appeared,
accompanied by Secretary Rusk, and said:
My Fellow-citizens—I left Hannibal, Mo., this morning at 6
o'clock, and have made twelve speeches to-day. You have been
very thoughtful to meet us here, and I know you will excuse me
if I say nothing more than I thank you. Good-night. [Applause.]
Thelast day of the long journey began with a speech at
Altoona at 10 o'clock. Superintendent and Mrs. Theodore
N. Eby joined the party here. The assemblage was a large
one and the President shook hands with many until the
crowd began calling for a speech.
Postmaster-General Wanamaker introduced the distinguished
traveller, saying: "Outside of Indiana I think
the President could not be more at home than he is in
Pennsylvania, and he requires no introduction."
My Friends—The book has been closed. I have been talking so
much while on this trip that I am sure you will excuse me this
morning. It has been a delightful journey, yet we experienced,
perhaps, that which is the crowning joy of all trips—getting back
home; that is the place for us. [Cheers.] I am glad to have this
greeting from my Pennsylvania friends this morning. Mr. Wanamaker
was not far wrong when he said that after Indiana Pennsylvania
was pretty close to me. It was in one of these valleys, not
very distant from your political Capitol, that my mother was born
and reared, and of course this State and this section of Pennsyl[488]vania
has always had a very dear interest for me. [Cheers and
great noise from steam being blown off at shops.] Of the applause
that we have enjoyed on this journey our reception here has been
the most original of all. [Prolonged cheering.]
Thearrival at Harrisburg at 1:15P.M.was heralded
by a presidential salute, and 10,000 cheers went up as the
President emerged on the rear platform, accompanied by
Secretary Rusk and Postmaster-General Wanamaker.
Among the prominent citizens who pressed forward to
greet the travellers was his excellency Governor Pattison,
Speaker Thompson, of the House of Representatives, Secretary
of the Commonwealth Harrity, Adjutant-General
McClelland, Hon. B. F. Meyers, Private Secretary Tate,
and many members of the Legislature. The Governor's
Troop, commanded by Lieutenant Ott, presented arms and
Bugler Bierbower sounded the President's march as the
Chief Magistrate appeared. Governor Pattison cordially
welcomed the President and presented him to the great
assemblage.
President Harrison closed his long series of brilliant and
interesting addresses in the following words:
Governor Pattison and Fellow citizens—I thank you for the courtesy
of this reception at the political centre of the great State of
Pennsylvania. I was informed, a little while ago, by the stenographer
who had accompanied me on this trip, that I had made 138
speeches, and when I saw the magnitude of my offence against the
American people I was in hopes I should be permitted to pass
through Harrisburg without adding anything to it. I will only
express my thanks and appreciation. No one needs to tell you
anything about Pennsylvania or its resources; indeed, my work
was very much lightened on this journey, because I found that all
the people clear out to Puget Sound had already found out more
about their country than I could possibly tell them. [Cheers.]
It is a pleasant thing that we appreciate our surroundings. We[489]love our own home, our own neighborhood, our own State. It
would be a sad thing if it were not so. There is only just enough
discontent to keep our people moving a little. Now and then some
boy gets restless in the homestead and pushes out to the West; the
result is a thorough mingling of the people. I do not know what
would have become of Pennsylvania if some people from other
States had not come in and some of your people gone out. It is
this that makes the perfect unity of our country. It was delightful
on our trip to meet old faces from home. Though they had
apparently been discontented with Indiana and left it, they were
willing to recall the fact, as I came near to them, that they were
Hoosiers. It was very pleasant, also, to see people as they met the
Postmaster-General put up their hands and say, "I am from the
old Keystone State." General Rusk was never out of sight of a
Wisconsin man, and of course the Ohio man was always there.
[Laughter and applause.] Our journey has been accompanied with
the labor of travel, but out of it all I think I have a higher sense
of the perfect unity of our people and of their enduring, all-pervading
patriotism. [Cheers.]
Therewas no demonstration at Baltimore. As the
train neared Washington—on the homestretch of its great
run of 9,232 miles—the President gathered all the members
of his party about him in the observation car, including
the train employees and servants, and made a short
speech, in which he thanked all who accompanied him for
their courtesy and attention. He referred to the long
journey—without accident of any kind and without a
minute's variance from the prearranged schedule—as a
most remarkable achievement, and paid a high compliment
to Mr. George W. Boyd, the General Assistant Passenger
Agent of the Pennsylvania Railroad for his successful
management of the trip, adding that it was a superb
exhibition of what energy and training could do for[490]a man. He then returned his thanks individually to the
engineer, conductor, and every employee.
The train reached Washington at 5:30 o'clock, exactly
on time to a fraction of a minute. General Harrison was
the first to alight to meet his young grandson, Master
Benjamin McKee, and the latter's little sister. There was
no unusual demonstration or speech-making. The President
was met by Secretaries Foster and Proctor, Attorney-General
Miller, Ass't Atty.-Gen. James N. Tyner, Assistant
Secretary Nettleton, Assistant Secretary Willetts,
Major Pruden, and Captain Dinsmore.
OnDecoration Day, 1891, President Harrison, accompanied
by Postmaster-General Wanamaker, Secretary
Proctor, Secretary Tracy, and Private Secretary Halford,
visited Philadelphia as the guests of George G. Meade
Post, No. 1, G. A. R., to participate in their memorial ceremonies.
They were met at the station by a committee
from the post, comprising the following veterans: Post
Commander Louis P. Langer, Senior Vice-Commander
Alexander M. Appel, Junior Vice-Commander James
Thompson, Adjutant A. C. Johnston, Officer of the Day
Robert M. Green, Guard Charles Harris, Chaplain Rev.
I. Newton Ritner, and Past Post Commanders Henry H.
Bingham, Joseph R. C. Ward, George W. Devinny, L. D.
C. Tyler, Alfred J. Sellers, William J. Simpson, James C.
Wray, John A. Stevenson, Alexander Reed, Lewis W.
Moore, John W. Wiedersheim, Isaiah Price, W. Wayne
Vogdes, G. Harry Davis, Charles L. Sherman, Henry C.
Harper, Penn Righter, and Isaac R. Oakford. Department
Commander George Boyer and Asst. Adjt.-Gen.
Samuel Town were also present to welcome the Comman[491]der-in-Chief.
The historic City Troop of cavalry—who,
from the day that General Washington entered Philadelphia
to take his second inaugural oath, have acted as an
escort to every President who has been a guest of the city—escorted
the President and the committee to Independence
Hall, where in a brief speech Mayor Stuart, in behalf of
the city, welcomed the Chief Magistrate.
The President, replying to the address of welcome, said:
Mr. Mayor, Comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic, and Fellow-citizens—I
esteem it a great pleasure to stand in this historic
edifice in this historic city and to take part to-day as a comrade of
the Grand Army of the Republic in these most interesting and
instructive exercises, which commemorate events which have been
most deeply sunk in our hearts. I think it eminently appropriate
that we should stand for a little time before going to the graves of
our fallen comrades in this edifice, where the foundations of independence
were laid and put into development to make this great
Nation to-day. In my recent extensive trip through the country I
was able to see the effects of planting these seeds of freedom, in the
flourishing plants that have grown. [Applause.]
We are here in a community that was instituted on principles of
peace and good will among men. But you gave a conspicuous
illustration of the facts that the fruits of peace need to be protected.
You did not all depart from the great lessons taught when you
united with the comrades from all the other States to hold up the
banner of the Union and to maintain peace and to perpetuate it at
all times. You went out to maintain peace, and you have established
in the affections of all of us the flag of our faith, and the
question of submission to the Constitution and the law in all States
has been settled to the contentment of all.
I appreciate most highly this welcome, and I take part in these
exercises with a sense of their fitness and a sense of the greatness
of the event which they commemorate.
I have never been able to think that this day is one for mourning,
but think that instead of the flag being at half mast it should
be at the peak. I feel that the comrades whose graves we honor
to-day would rejoice if they could see where their valor has placed
us. I feel that the glory of their dying and the glory of their
achievement covers all grief and has put them on an imperishable
roll of honor.
At the conclusion of the public reception at Independence
Hall the President and his party were escorted to Laurel
Hill Cemetery, where they took part in the ceremonies over
the grave of Gen. George G. Meade, the hero of Gettysburg.
Along the entire line of march to the stand were immense
crowds, who greeted the President with silent
demonstrations of respect.
The usual Memorial Day exercises were held, and at their
conclusion Commander Langer said: "I wish to introduce
to you the honored guest of the day, Comrade Harrison,
the Chief Magistrate of the Nation."
As the President stepped forward he was heartily
cheered. He said:
Commander, Comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic, and
Fellow-citizens—I have neither the strength nor the voice adequate
to any extended speech to-day. I come to you as a comrade to
take part in the interesting exercises of this Memorial Day. It
gives me special pleasure to combine with that tribute which I have
usually been able to pay since this day was instituted to the dead
of all our armies a special mark of respect to that great soldier who
won Gettysburg. It is impossible to separate some impressions of
sorrow from these exercises, for they bring to memory comrades
who have gone from us. How vividly there comes to my memory
many battle scenes; not the impetuous rush of conflict, but the
hour of sadness that followed victory. Then it was our sad duty
to gather from the field the bodies of those who had given the last
pledge of loyalty.
There is open to my vision more than one yawning trench in
which we laid the dead of the old brigade. We laid them, elbow
touching elbow, in the order in which they had stood in the line
of battle. We left them in the hasty sepulchre and marched on.
Now we rejoice that a grateful Government has gathered together
the scattered dust of all these comrades and placed them in beautiful
and safe places of honor and repose. I cannot but feel that if
they could speak to us to-day they would say put the flag at the top
of the mast.
I have recently returned from an extended tour of the States, and
nothing so impressed and refreshed me as the universal display of[493]this banner of beauty and glory. It waved over every school-house,
it was in the hands of the school children. As we sped across the
sandy wastes at some solitary house a man, a woman, a child would
come to the door and wave it in loyal greeting. Two years ago I
saw a sight that has ever been present in my memory. As we
were going out of the harbor of Newport about midnight on a dark
night some of the officers of the torpedo station had prepared for
us a beautiful surprise. The flag at the top of the station was unseen
in the darkness of the night, when suddenly electric search-lights
were turned on it, bathing it in a flood of light.
All below the flag was hidden, and it seemed to have no touch
with earth, but to hang from the battlements of heaven. It was
as if Heaven was approving the human liberty and human equality
typified by that flag.
Let us take on this occasion a new draught of courage, make
new vows of consecration, for, my countrymen, it was not because
it was inconvenient that the rebel States should go, not that it
spoiled the autonomy of the country, but because it was unlawful
that all this sacrifice had to be made, to bring them back to
their allegiance. Let us not forget that as good citizens and good
patriots it is our duty always to obey the law and to give it our
loyal support and insist that every one else shall do so. There is
no more mischievous suggestion made than that the soldiers of the
Union Army desire to lay any yoke on those who fought against
us other than the yoke of the law. We cannot ask less than that
in all relations they shall obey the law, and that they shall yield
to every other man his full rights under the law.
I thank you for the pleasure of participating in these exercises
with you to-day, and give you a comrade's best wishes and a comrade's
good-by.
OnTuesday, August 18, President Harrison left Cape
May Point on a journey to Bennington, to participate in
the dedication of Bennington Battle Monument. He was
accompanied by Private Secretary Halford, Russell B.
Harrison, Mr. Howard Cale, of Indianapolis, and George
W. Boyd, of the Pennsylvania Company. The trip through
New Jersey was uneventful. At Vineland, Glassboro,[494]Camden, Trenton, and Burlington crowds greeted the
President, but as it was raining there was no speech-making.
At Jersey City the party was joined by John
A. Sleicher, W. J. Arkell, and E. F. Tibbott, the President's
stenographer.
Leaving New York at noon the first stop was at Cornwall,
where the President was heartily welcomed by a large
crowd and bowed his acknowledgments.
Theweather cleared as the party reached historic Newburgh,
where 3,000 people gave the Chief Executive a
rousing welcome. Hon. M. Doyle, Mayor of Newburgh,
and the following representative citizens received the President:
Ex-Mayor B. B. Odell, Hon. A. S. Cassedy, Hon.
B. B. Odell, Jr., William G. Taggart, Daniel S. Waring,
William Chambers, Charles H. Hasbrouck, J. M. Dickey,
Henry B. Lawson, James G. Graham, Thomas R. Spier,
A. E. Layman, George Hasting, Maj. E. C. Boynton, A.
Woolsey, John F. Tucker, William Lynn, George Brown,
Dr. D. L. Kidd, H. C. Smith, Augustus Denniston, E. M.
Murtfeldt, and John J. Nutt.
Colonel Sleicher introduced President Harrison, who
said:
My Fellow-citizens—I am very much obliged to you for this
friendly greeting. It is pleasant to run out of the rain and mist
that have hung about our train for an hour or two into this bright
sunshine and into the gladness of the pleasant welcome which you
have extended to us. You are situated here in a region full of
historic interest. Every child learns early here the story of the
sacrifice and courage of those who laid the foundation of this Government,
which has grown beyond the conception of even the
wisest of our fathers. I am sure that in these things you must all
find inspiration to good citizenship, and it is pleasant to know
that you rejoice that it has left its impress upon the hearts of all[495]our people; that upon the Sacramento as well as upon the Hudson
men love the old memories and the old flag. [Applause.]
I am glad to pause with you a moment in passing to the observance
in Vermont of one of those great battle events which led to
the independence of our country. We have great common interests
as a people, and, while we divide as to the method by which we
would promote the national prosperity, I am sure we are all devoted
in heart to the country and the institutions that have done
so much for us. In the interest of good government we are one;
we all believe that the Government should be so administered that
all the people shall share equally in its benefits; that there shall be
no favored class. I thank you again, and bid you good-by. [Applause.]
AtKingston fully 2,000 people were assembled. Prominent
among those who welcomed the President were Hon.
James G. Linsley, Hon. Geo. M. Brink, H. W. Baldwin,
William D. Brinnier, D. C. Overbaugh, S. B. Sharpe,
B. J. Winnie, Charles B. Safford, George B. Merritt, O.
P. Carpenter, James E. Phinney, and Noah Wolven.
After shaking hands for several minutes, Hon. William
H. Turner introduced President Harrison, who said:
My Fellow-citizens—Perhaps I had better spend the moment or
two that remains in saying a word to all of you than in shaking
hands with the few that can gather about the car. You ask for a
speech. It is not very easy to know what one can talk about on
such an occasion as this. Those topics that are most familiar to
me, because I am brought in daily contact with them, namely,
public affairs, are in some measure prohibited to me, and I must
speak therefore only of those things upon which we agree; for I
have no doubt, if we were closely interrogated, some differences
would develop in the views of those assembled here. That is one
of the things we are proud of and that tend to the perpetuity and
purity of our institutions—that we are permitted to differ in our
views, to be independent in our opinions, and to be answerable to
our consciences and to God only for the convictions we entertain.
I am sure, however, we all rejoice in the evidences of prosperity[496]which are spread over this good land of ours. We rejoice in the
freedom and happiness and contentment that are in our communities
and in our homes. We rejoice to know that no cloud is over
our horizon; that we are at peace with the world and at peace
among ourselves. I think the world has come to understand that
it is well to be at peace with us [applause], and I am sure we have
come to understand that it is very well to be at peace among our
selves. [Applause.]
Our situation is one of great favor. We are pretty widely separated
from those who would hurt us, if there are any such. We
are secure in our great isolation, and we are secure, too, in our
great and patriotic people. [Applause.] We do not maintain
armies; we do not need to extend the conscription list until it
takes old age and youth. We maintain only the merest skeleton
of an army, but we have already seen how speedily it may develop
into gigantic proportions, and how, in a few months, it may take
on the discipline that makes it the equal of any of the great armies
of the world. [Applause.] We have this year a season of unusual
productiveness. The orchards are laden with fruit, the gardens
yield their abundant supplies to the table, and the fields have produced
crops that are too great for our storehouses.
God has greatly blessed us, and it happens that this season of our
abundance is not only good for us, but for the world; for again,
as many times before, the nations of Europe, by reason of crop
failures, must look to us to feed their people. We have a great
surplus and an assorted market for it. Our riches must be greatly
increased as the result of two magnificent harvests. Their good
effects will be felt in every home, contentment upon the farm, and
well-paid labor in all our cities and centres of manufacture. Thus
it should be. Thus, I am sure, we all rejoice that it is, because
these institutions of ours can have no danger except in a discontented
citizenship. As long as men have a free and equal chance,
as long as the labor of their hands may bring the needed supplies
into the household, as long as there are open avenues of hope and
advancement to the children they love, men are contented—they
are good, loyal, American citizens. [Applause.] And now I
thank you again for your kindness. [Cheers.]
Itwas 6 o'clock in the afternoon when the President
arrived at Albany, during a heavy rain. In anticipation
of this visit from the head of the Nation, the following telegraphic
correspondence had passed between the courteous
Governor of New York and President Harrison:
I learn for the first time to-day that you have accepted the invitation
of Mayor Manning to stop at Albany on your way to Vermont.
If the plan of your journey will enable you to pass a night
in Albany, as I hope it may, I shall be pleased to have yourself
and party become my guests at the Executive Mansion. Personally,
as well as officially, I assure you it gives me great pleasure
to extend this invitation, and I sincerely trust that you will so
arrange your plans as to give me the opportunity of entertaining
you. The Executive Mansion is ample for the accommodation of
such members of your Cabinet or friends as may accompany you.
On behalf of the people of the State, also, I shall be pleased to
tender you a public reception at the State Capitol.
I am very much obliged for your very cordial invitation, but it
will be only possible for me to make a brief stay at Albany. How
long depends upon the railroad schedule, not yet communicated to
me. As soon as details are arranged will advise you. For such
time as I can spare I will place myself in the hands of the city
and State authorities.
The following prominent citizens of Albany met the
President at Selkirk and escorted him to the city: James
Ten Eyck, Chairman; Col. A. E. Mather, John G. Myers,
James M. Warner, Henry C. Nevitt, and William Barnes.
Among others who greeted the President on his arrival
were Capt. John Palmer, Commander-in-Chief of the G.
A. R., Hon. Simon W. Rosendale, Deputy Controller[498]Westbrook, H. N. Fuller, C. B. Templeton, William H.
Cull, and Oscar Smith.
The reception was held in City Hall Square, where many
thousand Albanians assembled. On the platform Governor
Hill, Mayor Manning, with the Common Council, Secretary
of State Rice, State Treasurer Danforth, and other
State and municipal officers were gathered. The President
received an ovation as he approached the stand. Mayor
Manning welcomed him in the name of the city and presented
Governor Hill, who extended to the Chief Magistrate
a broader welcome in the name of the people of the
Empire State.
Responding to these hospitable addresses, the President
said:
Governor Hill, Mr. Mayor, and Fellow-citizens—The conditions of
the evening, these threatening and even dripping clouds, are not
favorable to any extended speech. I receive with great gratification
the very cordial expressions which have fallen from the lips
of his excellency, the Governor of this great State, and of his
honor, the Mayor of this great municipality. It is very gratifying
to me to be thus assured that as American citizens, as public officers
administering each different functions in connection with the
government of the Nation, of the State, and of the municipality,
we, in common with this great body of citizens, whose servants
we all are, have that common love for our institutions, and that
common respect for those who, by the appointed constitutional
methods, have been chosen to administer them, as on such occasions
as this entirely obliterates all differences and brings us together
in the great and enduring brotherhood of American citizens.
[Prolonged cheering.]
This great capital of a great State I have had the pleasure of
visiting once or twice before. I have many times visited your
commercial capital, and have traversed in many directions the
great and prosperous Empire State. You have concentrated here
great wealth and great productive capacity for increased wealth,
great financial institutions that reach out in their influences and
effects over the whole land. You have great prosperity and great
responsibility. The general Government is charged with certain
great functions in which the people have a general interest. Among
these is the duty of providing for our people the money with which[499]its business transactions are conducted. There has sometimes
been in some regions of the great West a thought that New York,
being largely a creditor State, was disposed to be a little hard with
the debtor communities of the great West; but, my fellow-citizens,
narrow views ought not to prevail with them or with you and will
not in the light of friendly discussion. The law of commerce may
be selfishness, but the law of statesmanship should be broader and
more liberal. I do not intend to enter upon any subject that can
excite division; but I do believe that the general Government is
solemnly charged with the duty of seeing that the money issued by
it is always and everywhere maintained at par. I believe that I
speak that which is the common thought of us all when I say that
every dollar, whether paper or coin, issued or stamped by the general
Government should always and everywhere be as good as any
other dollar. I am sure that we would all shun that condition of
things into which many peoples of the past have drifted, and of
which we have had in one of the great South American countries
a recent example—the distressed and hopeless condition into which
all business enterprise falls, when a nation issues an irredeemable or
depreciated money. The necessities of a great war can excuse
that.
I am one of those that believe that these men from your shops,
these farmers remote from money centres, have the largest interest
of all people in the world in having a dollar that is worth one
hundred cents every day in the year, and only such. If by any
chance we should fall into a condition where one dollar is not so
good as another I venture the assertion that that poorer dollar will
do its first errand in paying some poor laborer for his work.
Therefore, in the conduct of our public affairs I feel pledged, for
one, that all the influences of the Government should be on the side
of giving the people only good money and just as much of that
kind as we can get. [Cheers.]
Now, my fellow-citizens, we have this year a most abundant,
yes, extraordinary, grain crop. All of the great staples have been
yielded to the labor of the farmer in a larger measure than ever
before. A leading agricultural paper estimated that the produce
of our farms will be worth $1,000,000,000 more this year than ever
before, and it happens that just with this great surplus in our
barns we find a scarcity in all the countries of Europe. Russia has
recently prohibited the export of rye, because she needs her crop to
feed her own people. The demands in France and in England and
Germany will absorb every bushel of the great surplus we shall
have after our people are fed, and, whatever complaints there may[500]have been in the past, I believe this year will spread a smile of
gladness over the entire agricultural population of our country.
This is our opportunity, and I cannot see how it shall be possible
but that these exports of grain, now reaching the limit of the
capacity of our railroads and of our ships, shall soon bring back
to us the lost gold we sent to Europe and more that we did not lose.
I was told by an officer of the West Shore road to-day that that
road alone was carrying 100,000 bushels of wheat every day into
New York, and that it scarcely stopped an hour in the elevator,
but was run immediately into the bottom of a steam vessel that
was to carry it abroad. [Cheers.]
This is only an illustration of what is going on. As the result
of it our people must be greatly enriched. Where there has been
complaint, where there has been poverty, there must come this
year plenty, for the gardens have loaded the table, the orchards
cannot bear the burdens that hang upon their reddening limbs,
and the granaries are not equal to the product of our fields. We
ought, then, this day to be a happy people. We ought to be grateful
for these conditions and careful everywhere to add to them the
virtue of patience, frugality, love of order, and, to crown all, a
great patriotism and devotion to the Constitution and the law—always
our rule of conduct as citizens. [Cheers.]
My fellow-citizens, it is very difficult to speak in this heavy
atmosphere. I beg, therefore, that you will allow me to thank
you for your friendly demonstration, and bid you good-night.
Whenthe special train reached Troy in the evening an
immense throng greeted the President. It was the noisiest
demonstration of the day. General Harrison shook
hands with hundreds, many of them working men just
from the shops. The following prominent Trojans composed
the Committee of Reception and escorted the party
from Albany: Gen. Joseph B. Carr, Charles W. Tillinghast,
William Kemp, Thomas Dickson, F. N. Mann,
William H. Hollister Jr., Col. Lee Chamberlin, John I.
Thompson, Col. Arthur MacArthur, D. S. Hasbrouck,
Samuel Morris, James H. Potts, J. F. Bridgeman, C. L.[501]Fuller, T. J. O'Sullivan, Cornelius Hannan, Henry McMillen,
H. M. Reynolds, George H. Mead, Dr. C. B. Herrick,
and William Kemp, Jr. The veterans of Willard Post G.
A. R., under Commander Leet, participated in the reception.
Ex-Mayor Wm. Kemp made the address of welcome in
the unavoidable absence of Mayor Whelan. Midst great
enthusiasm and cheers General Carr introduced the President,
who spoke as follows:
My Friends—I attempted a little while ago to speak in Albany in
this damp atmosphere, and find my voice is so much roughened by
the effort that I can hardly hope to make myself heard by you.
I am glad to have the opportunity to pause some moments in the
city of Troy, to look into the faces of its industrious and thrifty
population. I have long known of your city as a city of industry—as
a great manufacturing city—sending out its products to all
the land, and by the skill of its workmen and the integrity of its
merchants finding everywhere a market for wares kept up to the
standard. [Applause.]
The President was here interrupted by the blowing of
steam-whistles, and continued, smiling:
I am quite used to having my speeches punctuated by steam-whistles.
I am sure that you realize here in a large degree the
benefit of a policy that keeps the American market for the American
workmen. [Cries of "Good!" and applause.] I try to be
broadly philanthropic in my thoughts about the human race, but
cannot help thinking that an American workman has a stronger
claim on my sympathy and help than any other workman. [Applause.]
I believe that our institutions are only safe while we have intelligent
and contented working classes. I would adopt constitutional
methods—any administrative method—that would preserve this
country from the condition into which some others have unfortunately
fallen, where a hard day's work does not bring sustenance
for the workman and his family. [Applause.] I would be glad
if there were not a home in Troy—not a home in the United States
of America—where there was not plenty for man and wife and
child; where there was not only sustenance, but a margin of saving
that might make the old age of the husband and wife and the life
of the children easier than this generation has been. [Cheers.]
President Harrisonand his party reached North
Bennington at 8 o'clock on the night of the eighteenth. He
was met by the following Committee of Reception on the
part of the city of Bennington: Gen. J. G. McCullough,
M. S. Colburn, J. V. Carney, S. B. Hall, and A. P. Childs;
also, Dr. William Seward Webb, and Col. Geo. W. Hooker,
representing the State Entertainment Committee. As the
President appeared he was greeted with rousing cheers by
the large crowd and escorted to the residence of General
McCullough, whose guest he was.
The following morning the distinguished visitors reviewed
the grand parade in honor of the centenary of
the admission of Vermont into the Union and the dedication
of the Bennington Battle Monument. Col. W.
Seward Webb, President-General of the Sons of the American
Revolution, accompanied by a mounted Grand Army
Post, escorted President Harrison to the Soldiers' Home,
where Gov. Carroll S. Page and all the living ex-Governors
of Vermont greeted him. The presidential party to review
the parade consisted of sixty guests of the State, and included
Secretary of War Proctor, Attorney-General Miller,
Gen. O. O. Howard, Governor Russell, of Massachusetts;
Governor Tuttle, of New Hampshire; Senator Henry
L. Dawes and ex-Gov. A. H. Rice, of Massachusetts; Senators
Edmunds and Morrill; Senators Wm. E. Chandler
and J. H. Gallinger, of New Hampshire; Congressmen
Grout and Powers; Adjutant-General Ayling and Hon.
John King, of New York.
The parade was the most brilliant and imposing ever
seen in the State. A feature of the decorations was a
magnificent triumphal arch, the turrets and embrasures of
which were filled with young maidens clad in brilliant
colors, while on the top of the arch were 125 little girls[503]dressed in white, with flowing hair, singing patriotic
songs. In the loftiest turret was a gorgeous throne of
gold, occupied by Miss Lillie Adams, personating the
Goddess of Liberty.
After the review the presidential party was escorted to
the grand stand at the monument, where 15,000 people assembled.
The battle monument is a plain, square shaft of magnesian
limestone 302 feet high. The interior at the base is
22 feet square and has a stairway. It was built under the
supervision of the Trustees of the Bennington Battle Monument
Association. The Building Committee comprised
Gen. John G. McCullough, H. G. Root, A. B. Valentine,
M. C. Huling, and L. F. Abbott.
Gen. Wheelock G. Veazey was President of the Day,
and introduced Rev. Dr. Charles Parkhurst, of Boston,
who opened the dedicatory exercises with prayer. Governor
Page delivered the address of welcome, and was followed
by ex-Gov. B. F. Prescott, of New Hampshire,
President of the Bennington Battle Monument Association,
who transferred the monument to the care and keeping of
Vermont. Hon. Edward J. Phelps, the chosen orator of
the occasion, then delivered a historical and scholarly address,
which was listened to with marked attention by his
distinguished audience.
At the conclusion of Mr. Phelps' oration Chairman
Veazey introduced President Harrison, who arose midst
prolonged cheers and spoke as follows:
Mr. President and Fellow-citizens—There are several obvious
reasons why I should not attempt to speak to you at this time. This
great audience is so uncomfortably situated that a further prolongation
of these exercises cannot be desirable, but the stronger
reason is that you have just listened with rapt attention to a most
scholarly and interesting review of those historical incidents which
have suggested this assemblage and to those lessons which they
furnish to thoughtful and patriotic men. [Applause.] A son of
Vermont honored by his fellow-citizens, honored by the Nation[504]which he has served in distinguished public functions, honored
by the profession of which he is an ornament and an instructor,
has spoken for Vermont [applause]; and it does not seem to me
fit that these golden sentences should be marred by any extemporaneous
words which I can add. I come to you under circumstances
that altogether forbid preparation. I have no other preparation
for speech than this inspiring cup of good-will which you
have presented to my lips. [Applause.] The most cordial welcome
which has been extended to me to-day makes it unfitting that I
should omit to make a cordial acknowledgment of it. Perhaps I
may be permitted, as a citizen of a Western State, to give expression
to the high regard and honor in which Vermont is held.
Perhaps I may assume, as a public officer representing in some
sense all the States of the Union, to bring to-day their appreciation
of the history and people of this patriotic State. Its history is
unique, as Mr. Phelps has said. The other colonies staked their
lives, their fortunes and honor upon the struggle for independence,
with the assurance that if, by their valor and sacrifice, independence
was achieved, all these were assured. The inhabitants of
the New Hampshire grants alone fought with their fellow-countrymen
of the colonies for liberty, for political independence, unknowing
whether, when it had been achieved, the property, the homes
upon which they dwelt, would be assured by the success of the
confederate colonies. They could not know—they had the gravest
reason to fear—that when the authority of the confederation of
the States had been established this very Government, to whose
supremacy Vermont had so nobly contributed, might lend its
authority to the establishment of the claims of New York upon
their homes; and yet, in all this story, though security of property
would undoubtedly have been pledged by the royal representative,
Vermont took a conspicuous, unselfish, and glorious part in
achieving the independence of the united colonies, trusting to the
justice of her cause for the ultimate security of the homes of her
people. [Applause.]
It is a most noble and unmatched history; and if I may deliver
the message of Indiana as a citizen of that State, and as a public
officer the message of all the States, I came to say, "Worthy Vermont!"
[Cheers]. She has kept the faith unfalteringly from Bennington
until this day. She has added, in war and peace, many
illustrious names to our roll of military heroes and of great
statesmen. Her representation in the national Congress, as it has
been known to me, has been conspicuous for its influence, for the
position it has assumed in committee and in debate, and, so far[505]as I can recall, has been without personal reproach. [Cheers]
We have occasionally come to Vermont with a call that did not
originate with her people, and those have been answered with the
same pure, high consecration to public duty as has been the case
with those who have been chosen by your suffrages to represent the
State, and I found when the difficult task of arranging a Cabinet
was devolved upon me that I could not get along without a Vermont
stick in it [laughter and applause], and I am sure you have plenty
of timber left in each of the great political parties. [Cheers.]
The participation of this State in the War of the Rebellion was
magnificent. Her troops took to the fields of the South that high
consecration to liberty which had characterized their fathers in
the Revolutionary struggle. [Applause.] They did not forget, on
the hot savannas of the South, the green tops of these hills, ever
in their vision, lifting up their hearts in faith that God would
again bring the good cause of freedom to a just issue. [Applause.]
We are to-day approaching the conclusion of a summer of extraordinary
fruitfulness. How insignificant the stores that were
gathered at Bennington in 1777 compared with these great storehouses
bursting with fulness to-day! Our excess meets the
deficiency of Europe, and a ready market is offered for all our
cereals. We shall grow richer by contributions which other countries
shall make as they take from our storehouses the food needed
to sustain their people. But after all, it is not the census tables of
production or of wealth that tell the story of the greatness of this
country. Vermont has not been one of the rich States of the
Union in gold and silver, and its lands have not given the returns
that some of the fertile riversides of the West yield. There has
been here constant effort and honest toil; but out of all this there
has been brought a sturdy manhood, which is better than riches,
on which, rather than to wealth, the security of our country rests.
[Applause.] I beg you to accept my sincere thanks again for the
evidence of your friendliness, and my apology that the conditions
are not such as to enable me to speak as I could wish. [Cheers]
At 4 o'clock the President's party and the State's invited
guests were entertained at a banquet spread in a mammoth
tent. The ladies of the party were seated in front of the
President. Among the notable ladies present were the
wives of General Alger and Attorney-General Miller,[506]Mrs. E. J. Phelps, Mrs. H. H. Baxter, Mrs. A. F. Walker,
Mrs. Horatio Loomis, Mrs. W. G. Veazey, and the wives
of ex-Governor Ormsbee and Gen. L. G. Kingsley, Miss
Roberts, Miss Brown, Miss Ormsbee, the wife of Senator
Morrill, Mrs. B. B. Smalley, the wives of ex-Governors
Farnham and Pingree, and of Auditor Towell. President
Harrison was seated between Governor Page and Secretary
Proctor.
Among the distinguished guests—other than those previously
enumerated—were Justice Blatchford, of the Supreme
Court; Gen. Russell A. Alger; Gen. Alexander S.
Webb, of New York; Col. A. F. Walker, of Chicago;
Speaker W. E. Barrett, Massachusetts; Col. Albert Clarke,
Boston; Maj.-Gen. J. M. Warner, of Albany; John King,
President Erie Railway; H. W. Bruce, Kentucky; ex-Gov.
R. S. Green, New Jersey; Hon. B. B. Smalley, Dr.
E. H. Doty, Asa B. Gardner, Maj.-Gen. William Walls;
Surg.-Gen. J. C. Rutherford and Quartermaster-General
W. H. Gilmore, of Vermont, F. B. Barrett and L. L. Tarbell,
Massachusetts; Col. H. C. Cutler, Col. M. J. Horton,
Col. W. H. H. Slack, and Col. H. F. Brigham, of Governor
Page's staff. The following ex-Governors of Vermont
were present: J. W. Stewart, Barstow, Pingree, Farnham,
and E. J. Ormsbee.
The entertainment was upon an extraordinary scale,
inasmuch as over 3,500 persons were seated at the banquet
tables at one time, and 16,000 pieces of figured china were
used, while the President's table was provided with a
dinner service of rare Sèvres and old Delft ware.
General Veazey, the President of the Committee, again
introduced President Harrison, who spoke as follows:
Mr. President and Fellow-citizens—Whatever temporary injury
my voice has suffered was not at the hands of Vermont. [Laughter
and applause.] New York is responsible. In Albany I spoke in
the rain to a large assemblage. Perhaps, if it were worth while to
trace this vocal infirmity further, I might find its origin at Cape[507]May [laughter], for I think I started upon this trip with the elements
of a cold that has to some degree marred the pleasure which I
had anticipated to-day. But, notwithstanding what my friend,
General Veazey, has described as "the dilapidated condition" of my
voice, I will respond to his request to say a word to you. I know
that General Veazey had been put in charge of the transportation
lines of the country; but I did not expect to find him in charge of
what the boys used to call the "cracker line." [Laughter.] It
seems that his capacity for usefulness in the public service is so
great and so diversified that you have called upon him to conduct
the exercises of this magnificent occasion. He is a most excellent
Interstate Commerce Commissioner [applause], an honor to your
State, and I have no criticism of him as President of the day, except
that he calls too much attention to me. [Laughter and applause.]
This scene, these tables so bountifully and so tastefully spread,
was one full of beauty when we entered, but it seems now to have
taken on some of that "dilapidation" which General Veazey ascribed
to my voice. [Laughter.] I am sure that if the supplies
gathered at Bennington to-day had been here in 1777 that struggle
would have been much more obstinate. [Laughter.] But, my
fellow-citizens, there is much in this occasion that is full of instruction
to the strangers who by your hospitable invitation have
the privilege of meeting with you. Wherever men may have been
born within this galaxy of great States, which makes the greater
Union, there is respect and honor for the New England character.
It has been a source of strength to the Nation in its development in
material things. It has furnished to literature and to invention
some of the largest contributions; but, more than all this, it has
done a great work for all the States, and especially those States
of the West and Northwest, in which its enterprising sons have
found new homes, in establishing everywhere a love of social order
and a patriotic devotion to the Union of States. [Applause.] If
we seek to find the institutions of New England that have formed
the character of its own people and have exercised a stronger
moulding influence than that of any other section upon our whole
people we shall find them, I think, in their temples, in their
schools, in their town meetings and in their God-fearing homes.
[Applause.] The courage of those who fought at Bennington, at
Concord, Lexington, Bunker Hill, and Saratoga was born of a
high trust in God. They were men who, fearing God, had naught
else to fear. That devotion to local self-government which originated
and for so long maintained the town meeting, establishing[508]and perpetuating a true democracy, an equal, full participation and
responsibility in all public affairs on the part of every citizen, was
the cause of the development of the love of social order and respect
for law which has characterized your communities, has made them
safe and commemorable abodes for your people. These migrations
between the States have been to your loss, but there is now a turning
back to these States of New England and to some of its unused
farms, which I believe is to continue and increase. The migration
which you have sent into the South to develop its industries, to
open its mines, to set up factories and furnaces, is doing marvellous
work in unifying our people. [Applause.] As I journeyed
recently across the continent this oneness of our people was strongly
impressed upon me. I think these centennial observances which
have crowded one upon another from Concord to the centennial of
the adoption of the Constitution and the organization of the Supreme
Court have turned the thought of our people to the most
inspiring incident in our history, and have greatly intensified and
developed our love of the flag and our Constitution. [Applause.]
I do not believe there has been a time in our history when there
has been a deeper, fonder love for the unity of the States, for the
flag that emblematizes this unity, and for the Constitution which
cements it. [Applause.]
I believe we have come to a time when we may look out to
greater things. Secure in our own institutions, enriched almost
beyond calculation, I believe we have reached a time when we
may take a large part in the great transactions of the world.
[Cheers.] I believe our people are prepared now to insist that the
American flag shall again be seen upon the sea [applause], and
that our merchants and manufacturers are ready to seize the golden
opportunity that is now offered for extending our commerce into
the States of Central and South America. [Cheers.] I believe
that conservative views of finance will prevail in this country.
[Applause.] I am sure discontent and temporary distress will not
tempt our people to forsake those safe lines of public administration
in which commercial security alone rests. [Applause.] As long as
the general Government furnishes the money of the people for their
great business transactions I believe we will insist, as I have said before,
that every dollar issued, whether paper or coin, shall be as good
and be kept as good as any other dollar that issues. [Cheers.] The
purity, the equality of what we call dollars must be preserved, or
an element of uncertainty and of bankruptcy will be introduced
into all business transactions. This I may say without crossing
lines of division: How this end is to be attained I will not at[509]tempt
to sketch, but I do not hesitate to say that I feel myself, in
the public interest, pledged so far as in me lies to maintain that
equality between our circulating money that is essential to the perfect
use of all. [Prolonged applause.]
I have gone beyond the promise of the President of the day, and
have been betrayed by your friendliness into speaking two or three
words. May I, in closing, tender to these good women of Vermont
my thanks for the grace and sweetness which their services and
their presence have lent to this happy occasion? May I say to them
that the devoted services of their mothers, their courage and
patience and helpfulness shown by the women in the great struggle
for liberty cannot be too highly appreciated? It was an easier fate
to march with bared breasts against the Hessian ramparts at Bennington
than to sit in the lonely homestead awaiting the issue
with tearful eyes uplifted to God in prayer for those who perilled
their lives for the cause. All honor to the New England mother,
the queen of the New England home! [Applause.] There, in those
nurseries of virtue and truth, have been found the strongest influences
that have moulded your people for good and led your
sons to honor. [Great cheering.]
At the conclusion John B. Carney, Chairman of the
Citizens' Committee, presented General Harrison with a
gold medal bearing a likeness of the Bennington Monument.
As the medal was pinned on the President's coat
he remarked: "It needed not this memento to remind me
of this auspicious occasion."
President Harrisonand his party arrived at Saratoga
on the morning of the 20th, and were heartily greeted. He
immediately embarked for Mt. McGregor, where another
large gathering welcomed him. After visiting the historic
Grant cottage the President became the guest of W.
J. Arkell, at the latter's cottage on the mountain. In the
afternoon the party partook of a "country dinner" at the
Hotel Balmoral, given by the Hon. James Arkell in honor
of the President's fifty-eighth birthday.
About 120 guests participated. Senator Arkell presided.
Among those present besides the President's party were:
B. Gillam, Capt. John Palmer, Commander G. A. R.;
Hugh Reilly, W. H. Bockes, M. L. Staver, P. Farrelly, J.
S. Lamoreaux, J. M. Francis, William Barnes, Jr., and
William Whitney, of Albany; Edward Ellis and Samuel
Insul, of Schenectady; John W. Vrooman, of Herkimer;
J. Y. Foster, C. C. Shayne, Spencer Trask, John A.
Sleicher, J. H. Breslin, W. A. Sweetzer, S. E. May, and
Marshall P. Wilder, of New York; D. F. Ritchie, W. T.
Rockwood, H. B. Hanson, J. G. B. Woolworthy, W.
Lester, C. S. Lester, W. W. Worden, E. H. Peters, J. M.
Marvin, E. C. Clark, and T. F. Hamilton, of Saratoga; J.
A. Manning, of Troy; D. W. Mabee, Frank Jones, and S.
C. Medberry, of Ballston, and John Kellogg and W. J.
Kline, of Amsterdam. Mr. Arkell paid an eloquent tribute
to the memory of General Grant and congratulated his
distinguished guest.
President Harrison arose and amid great cheering began:
Mr. Arkell and Friends—It was a part of the covenant of this
feast that it should be a silent one; not exactly a Quaker meeting,
as Mr. Arkell has said, because silence there is apt to be broken by
the moving of the spirit. That is not a safe rule for a banquet.
[Laughter.] I rise only to thank your generous host and these
gentlemen from different parts of the State who honor this occasion
for their friendliness and their esteem. We are gathered
here in a spot which is historic. This mountain has been fixed in
the affectionate and reverent memory of all our people and has been
glorified by the death on its summit of Gen. Ulysses S. Grant.
[Applause.] It is fit that that great spirit that had already lifted
its fame to a height unknown in American history should take its
flight from this mountain-top. It has been said that a great life
went out here; but great lives, like that of General Grant, do not
go out. They go on. [Cries of "Good! Good!" and great applause.]
I will ask you in a reverent and affectionate and patriotic remembrance
of that man who came to recover all failures in military
achievement, and with his great generalship and inflexible purpose
to carry the flag of the republic to ultimate triumph, recalling with
reverent interest his memory, to drink a toast in silence as a pledge[511]that we will ever keep in mind his great services, and in doing so
will perpetuate his great citizenship and the glory of the Nation
he fought to save.
ThePresident left Mt. McGregor the afternoon of the
21st, and reached Saratoga at 4 o'clock, where 50,000 people
joined in an ovation to him. It was the largest gathering
ever seen in Saratoga, and the town was resplendent with
colors. The Chief Executive was met by a reception
committee composed of Hon. John R. Putnam, Hon. A.
Bockes, Hon. Henry Hilton, Hon. H. S. Clement, Hon.
James M. Marvin, Hon. John W. Crane, Hon. J. W.
Houghton, Gen. W. B. French, Hon. John Foley, Hon. D.
Lohnas, Col. David F. Ritchie, Hon. Lewis Varney, Lieut.
A. L. Hall, Edward Kearney, John A. Manning, George
B. Cluett, Prof. Edward N. Jones, and J. G. B. Woolworth.
Wheeler Post, G. A. R., acted as an escort of honor.
Arrived at the Grand Union Hotel, the President was
greeted with great clapping of hands and the waving of
10,000 handkerchiefs by the ladies. He reviewed the procession
from the piazza, and, on being introduced by Village
President Lohnas, spoke a follows:
My Fellow-citizens—The greatness of this assembly makes it impossible
that I should do more than thank you for the magnificent
welcome which you have extended me to-day. I have great
pleasure in being again for a few days in Saratoga—this world renowned
health and pleasure resort. It gives me great satisfaction
to witness, on the part of the citizens of Saratoga and of the visitors
who are spending a season for refreshment or recuperation here,
the expression of kindness which beams upon me from all your
faces. I am sure the explanation of all this is that you are all
American citizens, lovers of the flag and the Constitution [applause],
and in thus assembling you give expression to your loyalty
and patriotism. [Applause.] It is not, I am sure, an individual
expression; it is larger and better than that, for this country of ours
is distinguished in naught else more than in the fact that its people[512]give their love and loyalty and service, not to individuals, but to
institutions. [Applause.] We love this country because it is a
land of liberty, because the web and woof of its institutions are
designed to promote and secure individual liberty and general
prosperity. [Applause.] We love it because it not only does not
create, but because it does not tolerate, any distinction between
men other than that of merit. [Applause.] I desire to thank
those comrades who wear the honored badge of the Grand Army
of the Republic for their escort and their welcome. I never see
this badge anywhere that I do not recognize its wearer as a friend.
[Applause.] Survivors of a great struggle for the perpetuity of
our institutions—having endured in march and camp and battle
the utmost that men can endure, and given the utmost that men
can give—they are now as citizens of this republic in civic life
doing their part to maintain order in its communities and to promote
in peace the honor and prosperity of the country they saved.
[Applause.] Thanking you once more for your friendliness and
cordial enthusiasm, I will ask you to excuse me from further
speech. [Great applause.]
Thelast day of the President's stay at Saratoga Springs
he was tendered a reception by Mr. and Mrs. J. S. T. Stranahan,
of Brooklyn, at the Pompeiian House of Pansa. Admission
was by card, and several hundred well-known
people paid their respects to the Chief Magistrate. The
wives of Governor Jackson, of Maryland, ex-Governor
Baldwin, of Michigan, and Hon. George Bliss, of New
York, assisted the host and hostess in receiving. Hon.
David F. Ritchie introduced the guests.
On the morning of August 25 the President, accompanied
by Secretary Proctor and the other members of his party,
left Saratoga on a journey through the Green Mountain
State. They were accompanied by Vice-President E. C.
Smith, of the Vermont Central road, and Superintendent
C. D. Hammond, of the Delaware and Hudson.
Thefirst stop was at Whitehall, where the party was
met by Hon. H. G. Burleigh, Gen. J. C. Rogers, William
Sinnott, Luke H. Carrington, A. J. Taft, and Maj. John
Dwyer, President of the Washington County Veteran Association.
A train containing several hundred veterans,
on their way to a reunion at Dresden, was in waiting, and
a large crowd assembled around the President's car. The
Burleigh Corps acted as a guard of honor. Ex-Congressman
Burleigh, in a brief speech, introduced the President,
whose remarks created much enthusiasm. He said:
Comrades and Fellow-citizens—It is pleasant to come this morning
upon an assemblage of comrades gathering with their families
to a social reunion to recall their services and sacrifices and to
bathe their souls in the glory of this bright day and of this great
land that they fought to save. [Applause.] Such assemblages are
full of interest to the veterans, and they are full of instruction and
inspiration to those who gather with them. It is our habit in the
West, as it is yours here, to have these annual meetings, and it is
always a pleasure to me when I can arrange to meet with the comrades
of my old regiment, or of the old brigade, or with the veterans
of any regiment of any State who stood for the flag. [Applause.]
There is a pathetic side to all this. We gather with
diminished ranks from year to year. We miss the comrades who
are dropping by the way. We see repeated now that which we
saw as the great column moved on in the campaign of the war—a
comrade dropping out, borne to the hospital, followed to the grave—and
yet these soldier memories and thoughts are brightened by the
glories which inspire and attend all these gatherings of the veterans
of the war. We see the old flag again, and I am glad to believe
that there has never been a period in our history when there was
more love for it. [Applause.]
It is quite natural that it should be so. These veterans who
stand about me have seen many days and months in camps and
battlefields and in devastated country through which they marched
when there was on all the horizon one thing of beauty—that glorified
flag. [Applause.] They brought home the love of it in their
hearts, wrought in every fibre of their nature; and it is very
natural that the children who have come on should catch this in[514]spiration
and love from the fathers who perilled everything that
the flag might still be held in honor, and still be an emblem of the
authority of one Constitution over an undivided Nation. We see
to-day how worthy the land was for which our comrades died, and
for which you, my comrades, offered your lives, in its great
development and its increasing population, in its multiplying
homes, where plenty and prosperity, the love of God and social
order, and all good things abide. In this great Nation, striding
on in wealth and prosperity to the very first place among the
nations of the earth; in this land, in truth as well as in theory the
land of the free, we see that which was worthy of the utmost
sacrifice of the truest men. [Prolonged Cheers.]
I recall with pleasure that some of the New York regiments,
coming to the Western army with Hooker and Howard and Gerry
and Williams and others, served in the same corps to which I was
designated during the great campaign upon Atlanta. Some of the
comrades who made that march from Chattanooga to Atlanta and
the sea are here to-day, survivors of one of the greatest, in all its
aspects, of all the campaigns of the war. You came from those
bloody fields upon the Potomac, and struck hands with us of the
West as brothers. You helped us in the struggle there to cut the
Confederacy in twain, and, lapping around by the sea, to strike
hands with Grant again near Appomattox. [cheers.]
I thank you again most cordially for your friendly demonstration
and presence. If I had the power to call down blessings upon my
fellow-men, the home of every comrade here would be full of all
prosperity. [Applause.]
AtWhitehall the party was joined by Adj.-Gen. T. S.
Peck and Col. M. J. Horton, of Governor Page's staff.
When the Vermont line was reached General Peck, in the
name of the Governor, formally welcomed the President to
the State. Fair Haven was reached at 10 o'clock. The
Reception Committee was Hon. Samuel L. Hazard, Andrew
N. Adams, George M. Fuller, and Wm. V. Roberts.
Mr. Hazard introduced President Harrison, who said:
My Fellow-citizens—We have already lost some minutes at your
station, and it will not be possible for me to hold the train longer.[515]I thank you for this friendly greeting, and for the kindness which
beams upon me from the faces of these contented and happy men
and women of the good State of Vermont. I am glad to see about
me the evidences of the indomitable pluck and successful enterprise
which characterize so highly all of your New England States.
When you found the stones too thick to make agriculture profitable
you compelled the rocks to yield you a subsistence, and these great
slate and marble industries have become the centre of wealthy and
prosperous communities. You are here, each in his own place;
these good ladies in that supremely influential position, the American
home, and you, my countrymen, in the shops and in the fields,
making contributions to the prosperity and glory of this great
Nation. It is pleasant to know that the love of country, stimulated
by the teaching of the father and of the mother, revived by these
recollections of the first struggle for independence, deepened by
the sacrifices which were made in the Civil War to preserve what
our fathers had purchased for us, are still holding sway in the
hearts of our people. [Cheers.]
We are conspicuously a people abiding in respect and honor for
the law. The law, as expressed in our constitutions and in our
statute-books, is the sovereign to which we all bow. We acknowledge
no other. To the law each and every one should give his undivided
allegiance and his faithful service. There is no other rule
that will bring and maintain in our communities that peaceful and
orderly condition, that good neighborhood and kindly intercourse,
which is so essential to the happiness of any community. I am
sure that these things, now as of old, characterize these New England
communities, where the strife which your colder climate and
your soil compel you to make for your subsistence has bred habits
of thrift, economy, and independence, and the love of liberty
which I am sure is as fadeless as the stars. [Applause.]
Thanking you again for this pleasant morning reception, I will
bid you good-by. [Applause.]
AtCastleton there was a large crowd, including 200
pupils of the Normal School, who pelted the President with
roses and golden-rod. The Reception Committee comprised
Hon. Henry L. Clark, A. E. Leavenworth, S. B.
Ellis, and A. L. Ramson.
Judge Clark introduced the President, who said:
Ladies and Gentlemen—It is very pleasant to meet here, mingling
with the citizens of this neighborhood, the pupils of your Normal
School. One of the most influential characters in the history of
the United States is the New England school-teacher. If we could
follow the track of these intelligent men and women who have
gone out from the New England States into the West and South;
if we could trace those strong, yet slender and hard-to-be-discovered,
threads of influence which they have started in the communities
to which they went; if we could know how they have impressed
on the minds of the pupils brought under their care the
great lessons of self-respect and love for free institutions and social
order,—we should have a higher thought than we have yet had of
the power and dignity of these pioneers of education. [Cheers.]
Brandongave the travellers a hearty reception at 11A.M.Ex-Gov. J. W. Stewart, of Middlebury, Hon. Aldace
F. Walker, of Chicago; G. G. Benedict and C. S. Forbes, of
St. Albans, joined the party here. Ex-Governor Ormsbee
welcomed the President on behalf of the residents of
Brandon.
My Fellow-citizens—The kindly pelting which I have received at
the hands of some of your ladies and of these bright children
reminds me of a like experience on the California trip, when we
were so pelted with bouquets of handsome flowers that we were
very often compelled to retreat from the platform and take cover
in the car. These gifts of flowers which you bring to me here are
the products of your fields and not of your gardens. The beautiful
golden-rod! It is pleasant to think that in this plant, so widely
distributed, slightly diversified in its characteristics, but spreading
over nearly our whole country, we have a type of the diversity and
yet the oneness of our people; and I am glad to think that its
golden hue typifies the gladness and joy and prosperity that is over
all our fields this happy year, and, I trust, in all your homes. I
thank you for your pleasant greeting this morning, and bid you
good-by. [Cheers.]
Onthe arrival of the train at Middlebury at 11:30A.M.another large and enthusiastic throng was on hand. The
President was greeted by ex-Gov. John W. Stewart, Col.
A. A. Fletcher, G. S. Wainwright, Judge James M. Slade,
Charles M. Wilds, E. H. Thorp, E. P. Russell, B. S. Beckwith,
E. J. Mathews, John H. Stewart, A. J. Marshall,
Col. T. M. Chapman, Rufus Wainwright, and Frank A.
Bond. The veterans of Russel Post, G. A. R., were present
in a body, also the Sons of Veterans.
Governor Stewart introduced the President, who said:
My Fellow-citizens—Though I have not before had the pleasure of
looking into the faces of many of you, Vermont has for many
years been familiar to me, and has been placed high in my esteem
by the acquaintance I have formed at Washington with the representatives
you have sent there. It has been a great pleasure to me
to know your esteemed fellow-citizen, Governor Stewart. Your
State and district and the Nation at large have had in him a most
able and faithful champion of all that was true and clean and right.
[Three cheers were given for Governor Stewart.]
You have been particularly fortunate, I think, in your representatives
at Washington, as I had occasion to say the other day at
Bennington. I am glad to be here at the site of this institution of
learning—Middlebury College, which is soon to complete its hundredth
year of modest yet efficient service in training the minds of
your young men for usefulness in life. These home institutions,
in which these able and faithful men assiduously give themselves
and their lives to the building up and development of the intelligence—and
not only that, but of the moral side of your young men—are
bulwarks of strength to your State and to your community.
They cannot be too highly esteemed and honored by you; because,
my countrymen, kings may rule over an ignorant people, and by
their iron control hold them in subjection and in the quietness of
tyranny, but a free land rests upon the intelligence of its people,
and has no other safety than in well-grounded education and
thorough moral training. [Cries of "Good! Good!" and applause.]
Again I thank you for this cordial greeting which Vermont gives
me this morning, and to these comrades and friends I extend a comrade's
greeting and good wishes. [Applause.]
AtVergennes a large and joyful crowd greeted the distinguished
traveller. The Reception Committee comprised
Hon. J. G. Hindes, Mayor of the city; Hon. J. D.
Smith, Herrick Stevens, and J. N. Norton.
Secretary Proctor introduced the President, who spoke
as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—I have had, as you know, some experience
in this business of speaking from the end of a railroad train. But
it has seemed to me this morning that these Vermont towns are
closer together than on any other route I have travelled. [Laughter.]
Perhaps it is because your State is not very large, and you have
had to put your towns close together in order to get them all in.
[Laughter.] I have heard an interesting story of the origin of this
city of Vergennes. I suppose it was one of the earliest instances
in the history of our country, if not the very first, of a city being
constructed upon paper before it was built upon the ground.
[Laughter.] That has come to be quite a familiar practice in these
late days of speculation, but it is singular that a city charter and
the ample corporate limits of one mile square should have been
given to Vergennes before this century began. If the expectations
of the founder of this city have not been realized fully, you have
more than realized all the thoughts of Ethan Allan and his contemporaries
in the greatness and prosperity of your State and in
the richer glory and higher greatness of the Nation of which you
are a part. [Cheers.]
I am glad this morning to look into the contented faces of another
audience of New England people. You were greatly disparaged in
the estimation of some of our people before the Civil War. There
had spread unfortunately over the minds of our Southern brethren
the impression that you were so much given to money, to thrift,
and to toil that your hands had forgotten how to fight. It was a
most wholesome lesson when the whole country learned again in
the gallant charges and stubborn resistances of the Vermont Brigade
that the old New England spirit still lived; that Paul Revere still
rode the highways of New England; and that the men of Concord
and Lexington and Bennington still ploughed her fields. [Applause.]
I am glad to meet you this bright, joyous morning; and
I am sure, in view of the fatigues that have preceded and that are
to follow, you will excuse me from further speech, and accept my
most heartfelt thanks for your friendliness. [Applause.]
Burlingtongave the President a royal reception Tuesday
noon. The Queen City was elaborately decorated, and
all business was suspended during the demonstration.
The distinguished visitors were welcomed by Senator
George F. Edmunds, his honor Mayor Hazelton, Col. Le
Grand B. Cannon, Hon. E. J. Phelps, Gen. William Wells,
ex-Gov. U. A. Woodbury, Hon. B. B. Smalley, Hon. G. G.
Benedict, C. F. Wheeler, ex-Governor Barstow, C. W.
Woodhouse, and Elias Lyman, President of the Board of
Aldermen. After luncheon at the home of Senator Edmunds,
the President was escorted through the Fletcher
Library to a platform fronting the park, where 20,000 people
greeted him.
Mayor Hazelton delivered the address of welcome and
introduced President Harrison, who responded as follows:
Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens—I am not a little intimidated as I
face so unexpectedly this vast concourse of the citizens of this
great State of Vermont. I say great, though your territorial extent
does not place you among large States; great in an origin that
gave occasion for an early and resolute expression of that love of
liberty which has always pervaded your people; great in a population
that has never bowed the knee to the arrogance of power or to
the blandishments of wealth, and has, through all the history of
the State, maintained the inspiration of its early annals for love
of personal independence. I rejoice to be present to-day at the
home of one of your distinguished public servants, with whom it
was my good fortune for a time to be associated in the discharge
of public duties. I am glad to see here, at his own home, the
respect and honor in which George F. Edmunds is deservedly held
by the people of Vermont. [Applause.] Having for six years
witnessed the value of his services as a legislator in the Senate of
the United States, I share with you the regret that this country is
no longer to enjoy those services; though it is a source of gratification
to you, as it is to me, to know that in his love and loyalty to
the State that he has so highly honored, in his love and loyalty to
the Union of States, there will be no call for his wise counsel and
help that will not find a ready response from the walks of life
which he has chosen to resume. [Applause.]
My fellow-citizens, it is true, as your Mayor has said, happily
true, that we not infrequently, and with ease, lift ourselves above
all the contentions of party strife and stand in the clear, inspiring
and stimulating sunshine as American patriots. [Applause.] We
are conspicuously a people who give their allegiance to institutions
and not to men. [Applause.] It were a happy thing for
others of our sister republics on this hemisphere if they could follow
this great example. Our people are not slow to appreciate
public services. They are not reluctant to acknowledge transcendent
genius, but they give their loyalty as citizens to institutions,
and not to parties or to men. [Applause.] This was happily
shown in our great rebellion, when party divisions, that seemed to
lift barriers between us like these mountain peaks, were obliterated
in a moment by that love for the Constitution and the flag which
pervaded all our people [applause]—a love that made the people
of all these great States one; that sent from Vermont and Massachusetts,
as from Indiana, those stalwart and devoted sons who
offered—many of them gave—their lives for the perpetuity of the
Union and the honor of the flag. Let us pursue our lines of division.
It is characteristic of a free people—it is essential—that
mental agitation and unrest out of which the highest and best is
evolved. But let us never forget that the fundamental thought of
our Government is the rule of the majority, lawfully expressed at
pure and clean elections, and that, when thus expressed, the laws
enacted by those chosen to make our laws are not less of the minority
than of the majority. [Applause.] Those who make the laws
are our servants, to whom we yield the respect of office and that
measure of personal regard to which their lives may entitle them.
[Applause.]
We are this year a most favored and happy people. Drouth has
blasted the crops of many of the nations of the world. Most of
the peoples of Europe are short of food. And God has this year,
mercifully to us, mercifully to them, made our store-houses to burst
with plenty. We have a great surplus of breadstuffs, and there is
not a bushel of wheat, corn, rye or oats that will not find a ready
market this year. Happy are we in this great prosperity; happy
that again out of your abundance the lack of other peoples may be
supplied. Let us be careful that our heads are not turned by too
much prosperity. It has been out of hardness, out of struggles, out
of self-denials, out of that thrift and economy which was an incident
of your soil, that the best things in New England have come.
[Applause.] And, while thankful to God for a season that diffuses
its blessings as this sweet sunshine is diffused into all our homes,[521]let us remember that it is not, after all, riches that exalt the
Nation. It is a pure, clean, high, intellectual, moral, and God-fearing
citizenship that is our glory and security as a Nation.
[Applause.]
Let me thank you again for the friendliness of your manifestations,
for the opportunity to stand for a few moments in this most
beautiful city. [Applause.] You have the advantage of many of
our municipalities. You have not only the beauties of these groves
and gardens and pleasant streets and lovely homes, but from these
hilltops you have laid under contribution fifty miles in either
direction to beautify Burlington. [Applause.] I thank you, and
part with you with regret that my stay cannot be longer and my
intercourse with you more personal and informal. [Applause.]
ThePresident and party embarked at Burlington on
board Col. W. Seward Webb's yachtElfridaand greatly
enjoyed the sail on Lake Champlain, landing at Maquam
in the evening, whence a special train carried them to St.
Albans, where they were welcomed by the Committee of
Reception, consisting of Hon. A. D. Tenney, George T.
Childs, Alfred A. Hall, T. M. Deal, W. Tracy Smith, B.
F. Kelley, A. L. Weeks, and A. W. Fuller. After dining
at Governor Smith's the President, at 9P.M., was escorted
to the Welden House, fronting St. Albans Park. Twelve
thousand people greeted him. The scene was one of unusual
beauty; from the branching elms hung 2,000 Chinese
lanterns.
When the President appeared on the balcony the enthusiasm
was great. He was introduced by Hon. E. C. Smith,
and spoke as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—I fear that my voice will not permit me suitably
to acknowledge this magnificent demonstration. In the tour
which I made this spring across the continent I witnessed very
many great assemblages and looked upon very many brilliant and
entrancing scenes, but I recall none outside the greater cities more
beautiful and worthy than this in St. Albans to-night. [Applause.][522]Most deeply do I feel whatever of personal respect you thus evidence,
and yet more highly do I appreciate that love of American
institutions, that fealty to the flag, which I am sure is the dominant
impulse in this great assembly. [Applause.]
Your situation upon this great water line connecting the St.
Lawrence with the Hudson was an early suggestion to the trader
as well as to the invader. The Indian canoe, the boat of the fur-trader,
ploughed these waters in the early days of our history. At
a later time they suggested to the military leaders of Great Britain
who commanded the armies sent for the subjection of the colonies
that familiar strategy of severing the colonies into two parts by
moving and establishing posts upon Champlain and the Hudson.
These attempts and the brave resistance which was made by our
people, in which Vermont had so conspicuous and creditable a
part, have made all the shores of Lake Champlain historic ground.
In the address delivered by President Bartlett in 1877 at the observance
of the centennial of the battle of Bennington, I noticed that
he said, "Trading Manchester sent two regiments to conquer a
market," and it recalled to my mind the fact that one of the great
motives of resistance on the part of the colonies was the unjust
trade restrictions and exactions which were imposed upon them by
the mother country in order to secure the American markets for
the British manufacturer. You recall how severe and persistent
were the measures adopted in order to repress and crush out the
establishment of manufacturing industries in the colonies. This
battle for a market was never more general or more strenuous than
now among all of the nations of the world, though now generally
not pushed to bloodshed. [Applause.] All of the countries of the
Old World have through colonial extension by the division of
Africa, much as a boy might divide a watermelon among his fellows,
had reference largely to trade extensions and enlarged
markets. In this contest we have ourselves engaged, not by
attempting to push our political domain into lands that are not
rightfully ours, not by attempting to overthrow or subjugate the
weaker but friendly powers of this hemisphere, but by those
methods of peaceful and profitable interchange which are good for
them as for us, [Cries of "Good! good!" and applause.] Secure
in the great American market for our manufactures—a market the
best per capita of any in the world—we have come now to believe
that we may well extend our trade and send our manufactured
products to other countries across the seas and in ships carrying
the American flag. [Cries of "Good! good!" and applause.] We
do not need in any degree to break down or injure our own domes[523]tic
industries. We are consuming, to an enormous extent, of
tropical products not produced by our people, and by a fair exchange
with the nations sending us sugar, tea, and coffee we propose
and have entered successfully upon the enterprise of opening
the markets of Central and South America to the manufacturing
establishments of New England and the United States. [Cries of
"Good! good!" and applause.]
I am sure every American will rejoice in the success which has
thus far attended these efforts, and will rejoice that with this expanding
trade to the southward there opens before us this year a
largely increased traffic in agricultural products with the nations
of Europe. We have never in the history of our country harvested
such a crop as has now been gathered into the granaries of the
United States. [Applause.] We shall have an enormously large
surplus of breadstuffs for exportation, and it happens that in this
period of our abundance crop failures or shortages in India, in
Russia, in France, in Germany, and England have opened a market
that will require the last bushel of grain we have to sell. [Cries
of "Good! good!" and applause.] Rejoicing in the peace that pervades
our land, proud of institutions which have for more than a
hundred years witnessed their adequacy to give peace and security
at home and to preserve our National honor abroad, rejoicing in
the great increase of material wealth which is flowing in upon us,
may we not on these great lines of enterprise, lifting ourselves now
to newer and larger thoughts of what this country may be, enter
upon these opening avenues of trade and influence upon which are
the beckoning invitations of friendly peoples? [Applause.]
Let me thank you again for this magnificent assemblage of Vermont
patriots and of Vermont women, who have shared with her
gallant men the sacrifices and suffering that this State has borne
that it might be born among the States, and, having been admitted
to the sisterhood, might, though small in geographical extent and
population, bear a noble and honorable part in the work of holding
up the American character and defending the American flag.
[Great applause.]
President Harrisonpassed the night at St. Albans.
On his departure, the morning of the 26th, he was accompanied
by Secretary Proctor, ex-Governor Smith and wife,
Colonel and Mrs. E. C. Smith, Tracy Smith, Hon. H. H.
Powers, Henry R. Start, D. Sage McKay, Col. Geo. T.
Childs, and Col. M. J. Horton, of Governor Page's
staff.
The first stop of the day was at Richmond, where a
large audience greeted the party. Among the prominent
citizens who received the President were: Judge E. B.
Andrews, Hon. U. S. Whitcomb, Capt. G. A. Edwards,
Dr. C. W. Jacobs, Hon. H. A. Hodges, C. P. Rhodes and
Edgar T. Jacobs. The veterans of Bronson Barber Post,
G. A. R., were present in a body.
Congressman Powers introduced the President, who
said:
My Fellow-citizens—It is a little early in the morning to begin
the daily round of speech-making, and yet I cannot refrain from
saying to you how highly I appreciate your morning welcome.
There is the tonic of your fine mountain air and the glory of your
sunshine in these cordial manifestations of your respect and good-will.
I hope no American citizen will ever begrudge the President
of the United States the refreshment which comes from these
occasional visits through the country, and from that draught of
good-will which he receives as he looks into the faces and takes the
hands of these good people, who have no other interest in the Government
than that it shall be honestly administered for the general
good. Washington is not always full of that kind of people; we
are more certain, perhaps, to find them in the country. And yet no
one should complain of honest criticism, and perhaps fault-finding
has its use, for occasionally it must be well grounded and disclose
to us errors we might otherwise have failed to discern. But, after
all, the bracing of the good-will of the good people of this country
is very essential to those who, in the midst of great perplexity and
doubt and under staggering responsibility, endeavor as they see
the right to do it. No man can do more than this, and I look upon
this popular feature of our Government, the readiness of communi[525]cation,
the nearness and familiarity of access which the people
have with all public servants, as a great safeguard to those who
might otherwise become separated from those impulses which are,
after all, the safest and best. [Applause.] I have had great
pleasure in passing through your beautiful valley this morning. I
can most sincerely commend what I see in these farms and thrifty
homes. Vermont is a mountain State, and, I suppose, because
your horizon is a little high you are more frequently than we who
live on the plains compelled to look up. That may account for a
great many of the good things which we discover in the New England
character. I thank you for your kindness. [Applause.]
Waterburywas reached at 10:30A.M.Governor
Page and Hon. W. W. Grout joined the party here. About
10,000 people were assembled to greet the President, prominent
among whom were: G. E. Moody, Esq., Hon. G.
W. Rundall, Hon. E. F. Palmer, M. M. Knight, George
W. Atkins, John Batchelder, L. H. Haines, Justin W.
Moody, C. C. Warren, W. R. Elliott, C. H. Arms, Charles
Wells, Dr. Henry Janes, and F. H. Atherton.
Hon. Wm. Paul Dillingham made the welcoming address
and introduced the President, who responded as
follows:
My Friends—It is very pleasant to know that a public officer may
travel everywhere through this great land of ours—and only those
who have traversed it can understand how great it is—and find
always his sure defence and care in the good-will and respect of
the people who surround him. If we bar out the irresponsible
crank, so far as I can see the President is in no peril, except that
he may be killed by the superabundant kindness of the people.
[Laughter.] There seems to be an impression that his strength
and capacity for speech-making is unfailing [laughter] and that
his arm is a hickory limb. But it is very kind of you and all
these good, people of Vermont who have met me on this journey to
express so pleasantly by your cheers, and much more by your
kindly faces, the love and loyalty you have for those in the situation
with which the suffrage of the people has for the time con[526]nected
me. The New England character is one that has been much
written about, much discussed, and I think that even those who
have found points for the sharpest criticism have, when they
adopted the Yankee method of averages, concluded that the influences
emanating from Plymouth Rock and diffusing themselves first
through the New Hampshire Grants and then the Western Reserve
of Ohio, and so scattering and disseminating the seeds of intelligence
and love of liberty throughout the whole land, have been
good for the whole country. The New England man is a man with
his eye open everywhere. I have sometimes thought that the habit
of attention, of giving the whole mind to the business in hand,
had its very natural origin and development in New England agriculture.
The man who holds a plough in a stumpy or stony ground
learns the lesson that he had better give his mind to the business
in hand. [Laughter.] Otherwise the revenge and punishments for
inattention are so prompt and severe that he is quickly called back
from any mental wanderings into which he may have fallen. I
had occasion to say a moment ago that the fact that the mountain
regions of the world had always furnished the bravest champions of
liberty and the most strenuous defenders of the faith was possibly
owing to the fact that their horizon was so high that if they looked
at all they were compelled to look up. [Laughter and applause.]
My countrymen, we have a great and happy land—a people
dwelling in happy homes, and that is the origin of government,
and there is the essential of a contented citizenship. As long as
we can preserve this independence and self-respect, and that degree
of comfort in the home that makes it a pleasant abode when the
day's toil is ended, and that enables by the most careful thrift the
head of the household to lay by for the family and to lighten in
some measure the care and labor of the children that are to follow
him, there can be no happier land than ours. If we would perpetuate
and secure that which we have had handed down to us and
which we have so well preserved until this hour, this is the essential
thing.
I thank you for this kindly greeting, and beg you to accept my
sincerest good-will. I can say nothing of public affairs. Every
man called to public office is subject to the infirmities that belong
to our nature—the capacity to make mistakes. He can be, if he is
true, sure of one thing—that in all that he does he has it in his
mind to do the best he can for all the people. [Prolonged cheers.]
A greatthrong greeted the President's arrival at the
Vermont capital. He was met by a Reception Committee
consisting of 15 prominent citizens: Col. Fred E. Smith,
Hon. Charles Dewey, Prof. J. A. DeBoer, J. C. Houghton,
M. E. Smilie, L. Bart Cross, G. H. Gurnsey, T. C. Phinney,
H. W. Kemp, D. F. Long, C. P. Pitkin, J. W. Brock,
George Wing, F. W. Morse, and Thomas Marvin. The
First Regiment N. G. V., commanded by Adjutant-General
Peck, with the Sons of Veterans, escorted the President
and Governor Page to the State House, the former walking
the entire distance with uncovered head, surrounded
by a guard of honor detailed from George Crook Post, G.
A. R. From the Governor's Room they were conducted
to the hall of the House of Representatives, where the
Legislature of Vermont was assembled in joint session.
The members arose and remained standing until the Chief
Magistrate was seated between Governor Page and Lieutenant-Governor
Fletcher.
After the applause subsided the Lieutenant-Governor
introduced President Harrison, who addressed the legislators
as follows:
Mr. President and Gentlemen, the Legislature of the State of Vermont—I
am grateful to you for this cordial reception, which crowns
a series of friendly demonstrations which began with my entry
into this good State and have continued to this interesting and
important occasion. I am glad to meet the chosen representatives
of the towns of Vermont, appointed to the discharge of functions of
legislating for the general good. The wisdom of our fathers devised
that system of governmental division for the general Government
which has found adoption or adaptation in all the States—the
division of the powers of the Government into three great co-ordinate
departments, each independent, and yet having close and
important relations one with the other, and each adapted in the
highest degree to secure the liberty of the individual, the welfare
of our community, and the national honor and prosperity. [Applause.]
It has been fortunate for us as a people that no serious[528]clash has occurred to these great departments. The constitutional
balance and counterbalance have preserved with marvellous exactness,
with the perfection of the most perfect machinery, the relations
of these several departments, each doing its appropriate work
and producing the great result which had been intended. Surely
there is no other country where the springs of government are
higher than here. The impulses of our people are drawn from
springs that lie high in the hills of duty and loyalty. They respect
and obey the law, because it is the orderly expression of their own
will. The compact of our Government is a rule by the majority.
The sanction of all law is that it is the expression by popular
election of the will of a majority of our people. Law has no other
sanction than that with us; and happy are we, and happy are those
communities where the election methods are so honestly and faithfully
prescribed and observed that no doubt is thrown upon the
popular expression and no question of the integrity of the ballot is
ever raised. [Applause.] If we shall ever or anywhere allow a
doubt to settle into the minds of our people whether the results of
our elections are honestly attained, whether the laws made are
framed by those who have been properly chosen by the majority,
then all sanction is withdrawn from law and all respect from the
rulers who by a false ballot are placed in public office. [Applause.]
I am glad to congratulate you upon your constituencies, intelligent,
devoted and patriotic. I am glad to congratulate you that
the State of Vermont, from its earliest aspirations and efforts for
liberty and self-government, which developed into your Constitution
in 1777, down through all the story of toil and the struggles
which have beset you as a State, and the vicissitudes which have
beset the country of which you are an honored part, that the State
of Vermont and her sons in the councils of the Nation and on the
blood-stained battle-fields of the great war have borne themselves
worthily. [Applause.] Will you permit me now to thank you
again for this demonstration and for the opportunity to stand for
a moment in your presence? I am sure that we may each, from
this occasion, in the discharge of public duty, draw some impulse
to a more perfect exercise of our powers for the public good. [Applause.]
The speech-making within doors being over, President
Harrison entered a side room, where he received the Tippecanoe
Club, shaking hands cordially with all. He was
then conducted to the Governor's Room, where he received[529]the members of the Legislature. Meanwhile a great crowd
massed on the beautiful grounds and waited impatiently
for the reappearance of the President. Finally he made
his way from the interior to the front of the Capitol.
Governor Page introduced him. The President spoke as
follows:
Governor Page and Fellow-citizens—This sunshine is as warm as
a Vermont welcome. [Applause.] It is of the highest quality.
It has life in it. But too much of it is prostrating. [Laughter.]
I have felt, in endeavoring to respond to these calls, that I was
possibly overtaxing my own strength, and perhaps overcrowding
the Press Association. [Laughter.] I am not naturally a gossip,
I think I had some reputation as a taciturn man, but it is gone.
[Laughter.] I have not given it up willingly. I have struggled to
retain it, but it has been forcefully taken from me by kindness of
my fellow-citizens, whom I have met so frequently within the last
year. Perhaps, however, if I preserve other virtues I can let this
go. [Laughter.] It is a great thing to be a citizen of the United
States. I would not have you abate at all the love and loyalty you
have for Vermont. But I am glad to know that always in your
history as a State and a people you have felt that the higher honor,
the more glorious estate, was to be a citizen of the United States
of America. [Applause.] This association of States is a geographical
necessity. We can never consent that hostile boundaries
shall be introduced with all that such divisions imply. We must
be one from Maine to California, one from the Lakes to the Gulf
[applause], and everywhere in all that domain we must insist that
the behests of the Federal Constitution and of the laws written in
the Federal statute-book shall be loyally obeyed. [Applause.] A
statesman of one of the Southern States said to me, with tears in
his eyes, shortly after my inauguration: "Mr. President, I hope
you intend to give the poor people of my State a chance." I said
in reply: "A chance to do what? If you mean, sir, that they shall
have a chance to nullify any law, and that I shall wink at the
nullification of it, you ask that which you ought not to ask and
that which I cannot consider. [Applause.] If you mean that
obeying every public law and giving to every other man his full
rights under the law and the Constitution, they shall abide in my
respect and in the security and peace of our institutions. Then
they shall have, so far as in my power lies, an equal chance with
all our people." [Applause.] We may not choose what laws we
will obey; the choice is made for us. When a majority have, by[530]lawful methods, placed a law upon the statute-book, we may endeavor
to repeal it, we may challenge its wisdom, but while it is
the law it challenges our obedience. [Applause.]
I thank you for the kindliness of this greeting in this capital of
Vermont. I wish for you and your gallant State and for all your
people in all their good, God-fearing homes continuance of that
personal liberty, that material prosperity, that love of the truth
which has always characterized them. [Applause.]
AtMontpelier the President's party was joined by Hon.
F. A. Dwinnel, Gen. F. E. Alfred, Gen. W. H. Gilmore, V.
R. Sartwell, W. A. Stowell, Col. H. E. Folsom, Fletcher
D. Proctor, Frank C. Partridge; also, E. W. Smith and
John Bailey, of Newbury.
The first stop in the afternoon was at Plainfield, where
1,000 people gave the President a cordial greeting. Among
the leading citizens participating in the reception were:
Joseph Lane, George D. Kidder, Leroy F. Fortney, E. J.
Bartlett, H. E. Cutler, Henry Q. Perry, D. B. Smith, H.
G. Moore, John A. Fass, Ira F. Page, Nelson Shorey, H.
W. Batchelder, and W. B. Page. W. E. Martin Post, G.
A. R., H. H. Hollister Commander, occupied a conspicuous
position.
President Harrison was introduced by Senator Dwinnel,
and said:
My Fellow-citizens and Comrades—For I see here, as everywhere,
some of those who wore the blue and carried the flag in the great
Civil War gathered to greet me. It gives me pleasure to stop for
a moment and to thank you for the friendliness which has brought
you from your homes to make this journey bright with your presence
and cordial welcome. I have been talking so much to-day
that I will not attempt to make a speech. I have already said a
great deal about Vermont, have expressed my esteem for it and
for its people, and all that. I have been very sincere, for I think
that your State does hold a very high place among the States.
Your sons, who have gone out to represent you and to take part[531]in those stirring enterprises which have laid the foundations of
new States, have already borne themselves with honor and with
true New England thrift, obtaining in the long run the full share
of all the good things that were going. I met some of them in
California. They are scattered this broad land over, and I think
they carry with them everywhere the love of the flag, respect for
law and order, love of liberty and of education, and interest in all
those things that make the communities where they abide prosperous
and happy. I think I owe a special debt to this neighborhood
for a pair of good Vermont horses that Secretary Proctor selected
for me, and in the driving of which I have had great relaxation
and pleasure. Your Vermont horses are well trained. The Morgan
horse has the good habit of entering into consultation with the
driver whenever there is any trouble. [Laughter and applause.]
Briefstops were made at Wells River, McIndoes, and
Barnet, and the President cordially thanked the people at
each place. St. Johnsbury, where great preparations were
made to welcome the distinguished guest, was reached at
4:30P.M.
The President's party headed a procession which moved
through the principal streets over a distance of two miles.
The guard of honor consisted of 300 mounted veterans
with drawn swords. The following prominent citizens
met the President: Col. Franklin Fairbanks, Hon. Jonathan
Ross, Chief Justice of Vermont, and Mrs. Ross; Rev.
Dr. C. M. Lamson, L. D. Hazen, A. H. McLeod, Charles
T. Walter, Hon. H. H. Powers, Col. Frederick Fletcher,
H. H. Carr, C. H. Stevens, E. H. Blossom, S. H. Brackett,
Lucius K. Hazen, Osborne Chase, George H. Cross, N. P.
Bowman, Albert Worcester, H. I. Woods, Dr. G. B. Bullard,
A. F. Walker, C. P. Carpenter, N. R. Switser, F. A.
Carter, L. W. Fisher, J. B. Gage, C. H. Horton, L. N.
Smythe, and Wm. H. Sargent. An incident of the parade
was the reception by the school children. The President's[532]carriage halted and several hundred of the children, led
by H. H. May, rendered "America," at the conclusion of
which six pretty little girls—Misses May Masten, Lala
McNeil, Marian Moore, Lottie Holder, Beatrice May, and
Emma May—stepped forward and presented a beautiful
floral key, thus tendering the freedom of the city to the
illustrious guest. The President reviewed the procession
from "Undercliffe," the stately residence of Colonel and
Mrs. Fairbanks, whose guest he was.
At night the town was brilliantly illuminated, and 10,000
residents gathered in the public park. Colonel Fairbanks
made the welcoming address and introduced the
President, who received an ovation and spoke as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—I could wish that I were in better voice and
in full strength, that I might better respond to this most magnificent
demonstration. I have rarely looked upon a scene more calculated
to inspire a patriot than this upon which my eye rests to-night.
I do most profoundly thank you for this great welcome.
The taste and beauty and elaboration of these preparations exceed
anything that I have looked upon in this journey. [Applause.] I
am sure you are here to-night after making all this preparation to
give witness by your presence of your love to the flag of our country
[applause] and to those institutions of civil government and
of liberty which that flag represents. [Applause.] It gives me great
pleasure to see that the flag is everywhere. I journeyed across this
continent, and, except when darkness shut in the landscape, I was
never out of sight of the American flag. [Applause.] On those
wide plains of the West, once called the Great American Desert,
now and again, in the home of some adventurous settler, the flag
appeared and was waved in greeting as our train sped on its way.
I rejoiced to see it everywhere in the sight of school children. On
that great demonstration in New York in observance of the centennial
of the inauguration of Washington, as I moved from the
Battery up through those streets dedicated to commerce, I saw
every front covered with flags, hiding for the time those invitations
to trade which covered their walls. The thought occurred to
me, What will be done with these flags when this celebration is
over? And it occurred to me to suggest at the centennial banquet
that the flags should be taken into our school-houses. [Applause.]
I rejoice to know that everywhere throughout the land, in all our[533]patriotic towns and villages, movements are being inaugurated to
display the American flag over our institutions of learning.
I have several times been brought in contact with incidents
showing this love of the flag. I remember that when Hood was
investing Nashville, and when that gallant, sturdy, unostentatious,
but always faithful and victorious leader, Gen. George H. Thomas,
was gathering the remnants of an army that he might confront his
adversary in battle, it was assigned to me to intrench through the
beautiful grounds of a resident in the suburbs of Nashville. The
proprietor was a Tennessee Unionist. While I was digging and
tearing the sod of his beautiful lawn, he was removing his library
and other valuables from his mansion, for it was within easy range
of the rebel fire. Happening into his library while he was thus
engaged, he opened a closet below the book-shelf, and, taking out
a handsome bunting, asked me whether I had a garrison flag. I
told him no. "Well," he said, "take this. Sir, I have never been
without the American flag in my house." [Applause.] I would
be glad if that could be said by every one of our people. There is
inspiration in it. It has a story wrought into its every fold until
every thread has some lesson to tell of sacrifice and heroism. It is
the promise of all that we hope for. It is to it and about it that
we must gather and hold the affections of our people if these institutions
are to be preserved. I have it in my mind as I saw it one
night in Newport harbor. Going out of that harbor upon a Government
vessel about midnight, when the heavens were darkened
clouds, I saw a sight that lives fresh in my memory. The officers
of the torpedo station had run up the Starry Banner upon the staff,
and turned upon it as we moved out of the harbor two great electric
search-lights. It revealed the banner, while the staff and
buildings below it were all hidden in the blackness. I could see
it as if it had been hung out of the battlements of heaven, lifting
its folds in the darkness of night, a glorified emblem of the hope
of a free people. [Applause.] Let us keep it thus in our hearts;
let no other flag be borne in our marching processions. We have
no place for the red flag of anarchy. [Applause.] This emblem
typifies a free people, who have voluntarily placed themselves under
the restraints of the law, who have consented that individual
liberty shall cease where it infringes upon the right or property
of another. This is our contract. This is the liberty which we
offer those who cast in their lot with us, not a liberty to destroy,
but a liberty to conserve and perpetuate. [Cheers.]
I am most happy to witness in this prosperous New England
town so many evidences that your community is intelligent, in[534]dustrious,
enterprising, and your people lovers of home and order.
You have here some great manufacturing establishments, whose
fame and products have spread throughout the world. You have
here a class of enterprising, public-spirited citizens, who are building
these free libraries and galleries of art and are ministering to
the good of generations that are to come. You have here an intelligent
and educated class of skilled workmen, and nothing pleased
me more as I passed through your streets to-day than to be told
that here and there were the homes of the working people of St.
Johnsbury [applause]—homes where every evidence of comfort was
apparent; homes where taste has been brought to make attractive
the abodes where tired men sought rest; homes that must have
been made sweet for the children that are reared there, and comfortable
for the wives whose place of toil and responsibility it is.
Here is the anchor of our safety. This is the state that binds men
to good order, to good citizenship, to the flag of the Constitution,
a contented and prosperous working class. [Applause.] I will
not cross any lines of division in my remarks to night, for this
reception is general; but I will venture to say that all our public
policy, all our legislation, may wisely keep in view the end of
perpetuating an independent, contented, prosperous and hopeful
working class in America. [Applause.] When hope goes out of
the heart and life becomes so hard that it is no longer sweet, men
are not safe neighbors and they are not good citizens, Let us,
then, in cheerful, loving, Christian good neighborhood see that the
blessings of our institutions, the fruits of labor, have that fair
distribution that shall bring contentment into our homes. [Applause.]
But, my countrymen, I did not intend to speak even so long. I
wish it were in my power to make some adequate return for the
generous welcome you have given me. I am not a man of promises.
I abhor pretension, but every such assembly as this that I see—this
great cup of good-will which you put to my lips—gives me strength
to do what I can for our country and for you. [Applause.]
Whenthe presidential party left St. Johnsbury on the
morning of the 27th, they were joined by Hon. A. A. Woolson,
C. S. Forbes, ex-Governor Farnham, and ex-Senator
Pingree. At White River Junction the President's car
was switched to a siding running to Billings Park, where
the Vermont Association of Road and Trotting Horse
Breeders was holding its annual exhibition. Senator
Morrill, Col. Geo. W. Hooker, and Capt. A. W. Davis accompanied
the party to the park, where carriages conveyed
them over the grounds. A large crowd was present.
Col. Hooker, as President of the Association, introduced
President Harrison, who said:
Colonel Hooker and Fellow-citizens—I have been called upon to
address my fellow-citizens under many diverse and some very
peculiar circumstances, but I think that those that surround me
this morning are absolutely unique. I understood that in the programme
Secretary Proctor had arranged for a day of pleasure here
at this horse fair, and that a more attractive entertainment was to
be provided for you and for me than speech-making. I am not well
up in the rules of the track, but I suppose on a morning like this
some allowance will be made for a heavy track, and if the horses
are entitled to it I think I may claim an allowance myself.
[Laughter.] Therefore, I have only to thank you for the friendliness
of your reception and to express my interest in this great
industry which is represented here—the breeding of horses. I
understand that it was so arranged that, after I had seen the flower
of the manhood and womanhood of Vermont, I should be given an
exhibition of the next grade in intelligence and worth in the
State—your good horses. [Applause.] I have had recently,
through the intervention of the Secretary of War, the privilege
of coming into possession of a pair of Vermont horses. They are
all I could wish for, and, as I said the other day at the little village
from which they came, they are of good Morgan stock, of which
some one has said that their great characteristic was that they
enter into consultation with the driver whenever there is any difficulty.
[Laughter and applause.] Thanking you again, I hope
you will give me the allowance to which a heavy track entitles
me. [Applause.]
AtBradford 1,000 people assembled to do honor to the
President, who arrived at 10A.M.The visitors were escorted
to a platform near the station. Among the prominent
residents who welcomed the Chief Executive were
H. E. Parker, Judge S. M. Gleason, Roswell Farnham,
John H. Watson, Dr. J. H. Jones, and L. J. Brown.
Ex-Governor Farnham introduced the President, who
spoke as follows:
Ladies and Gentlemen—I will only say a few words to thank
you for this welcome which is extended to me this morning, and
which it seems to me furnishes some proof of your well wishes and
kindly feelings. I have had a journey through Vermont that will
be very pleasant in my recollection, although attended with some
instances of an unpleasant nature. As I understood the purpose of
this trip when I gave my assent to it at the request of your excellent
fellow-citizen, whom you kindly loaned me for a little while, and
are now, as far as I can see, about to reclaim, the trip was to be
one of relaxation, and to visit him and some of his friends. It
seems to me that the circle has been enlarged beyond the limit of
his friends, and if not that they include the whole of the people of
Vermont. It is very pleasant to pass through your enterprising
manufacturing towns, and to see this rural population, which,
after all, is the foundation of all State organizations, which are
based upon the farms of old New England. The farm has been,
perhaps, one of the most productive measures toward the enrichment
of this country in things that are greater than the material
things—in manhood, valor in warfare, and statesmanship in political
life. It has been a matter of great pleasure to me as we have
driven through the streets of these cities, from Bennington until
this time, to observe one thing. As we pass by your streets I have
seen some aged father or mother or grandfather or grandmother
placed in a position for best observation and kindly attended by
some member of the family, showing that family love, that veneration
for the aged, that has, to me, been a source of particular
gratification. For, after all, the home is the beginning and centre
of all good things. The life of our Nation is learned in the first
rudiments of government at home and that lesson of veneration
for things that are good. With these elements I think you are[537]sure to make the career of Vermont not greater in temporary
things, but greater in those things which are more productive to
the Nation and to mankind. [Prolonged cheers.]
Itwas raining when the President arrived at Windsor,
at 1P.M.He was met by Senator William M. Evarts,
accompanied by Hon. C. C. Beaman, of New York; Hon.
Chester Pike, of Cornish, N. H., and the following prominent
citizens, comprising the local Committee of Reception:
Col. Marsh O. Perkins, Dwight Tuxbury, Hon. G.
A. Davis, Dr. C. P. Holden, Dr. J. S. Richmond, U. L.
Comings, George T. Low, Hon. Rollin Amsden, E. C.
Howard, Charles H. Fitch, O. L. Patrick, Rev. E. N. Goddard,
S. N. Stone, S. R. Bryant, J. M. Howe, George T.
Hazen, S. M. Blood, S. E. Hoisington, Horace Weston,
A. E. Houghton, A. J. Hunter, Allen Dudley, Dr. Deane
Richmond, J. R. Brewster, A. D. Cotton, G. R. Guernsey,
Charles N. Adams, Col. M. K. Paine, H. W. Stocker,
George M. Stone, Harvey Miller, George T. Winn, and
C. D. Penniman.
After partaking of luncheon at the residence of Senator
and Mrs. Evarts, the President was conducted to the Town
Hall, and, being introduced to the assemblage by Colonel
Perkins, he spoke as follows:
My Fellow-citizens—I am about completing a very pleasant trip
through the State of Vermont—a trip which, while not the first,
has furnished the only occasion on which I have really been brought
in contact with the people of your State. My previous journeys
were those of a summer tourist, snatching these fine and attractive
views as we sped along some of your lines of railway, but getting
little impression of the character of the people who occupy these
towns and rural homesteads. It has given me great pleasure on
this occasion to receive at the hands of your people everywhere a
most cordial reception, It has been a source of constant regret to
me that I am able on such occasions as we have here this afternoon[538]to make so small a return for the care, preparation, and friendly
interest which the people manifest. I am under such limitations
as to them and about which I may talk that the fertility of a very
rich and highly cultivated mind and imagination would be necessary
to furnish one with something new or interesting to say in
response to the repeated calls. I have supposed that all of these
meetings were expressions of patriotism and of popular interest in
a Government which Mr. Lincoln so felicitously described as "a
government of the people, by the people, for the people."
[Applause.] It is pleasant to have the personal esteem and respect of
my fellow-citizens, but I have not thought of appropriating to myself
these demonstrations. It is very gratifying to see a people in
love with their civil institutions and with that glorious flag which
typifies our diversity and our unity. [Applause.] I have said
before that it seemed to me this is the essential element and base
of every republican government, that the loyalty and love of the
people should be given to our institutions and not to men. [Applause.]
I think it is one element of discord and unhappiness in
some of our sister republics that the minds of these patriotic and
generous people are too much swayed by their admiration for men,
that they are often swept away from the moorings of principle by
the love of a leader. I have rejoiced to find everywhere in the
State of Vermont what seemed to me to be a deep-seated, earnest
patriotism. [Applause.] It is to be hoped that we may not soon
have any call for such manifestations as you have given in the
past on the battle-fields from Bennington to the surrender of Appomattox.
[Cheers.]
It is pleasant to be here to day at the home of my esteemed friend
and your fellow-townsman, the Hon. William M. Evarts. [Applause.]
I am glad that he has introduced into Vermont model
farming [laughter and applause], and has shown you what the
income of a large city law practice can do in the fertilization of a
farm. [Laughter and applause.] He has assured me to-day that
his farm yields a net income. I accept the statement of my host
with absolute faith—and yet Mr. Evarts' reputation as a bookkeeper
is not the best in the world. [Laughter and applause.] It is
pleasant to see him and to be for a while in his genial presence,
and to have this journey illuminated by a visit to his home. I
hope he may dwell long with you in peace and honor, as he will
always dwell in the honor and esteem of our whole people.
[Applause.]
Notwithstandingthe heavy downpour, 1,000 or more
sturdy citizens of historic old Charlestown welcomed the
President to New Hampshire. The Reception Committee
consisted of Hon. George Olcott, George S. Bond, Frank
Finnigan, Col. Samuel Webber, Herbert W. Bond, and
Frank W. Hamlin. Lincoln Post, G. A. R., Lyman F.
Partridge Commander, also participated in the reception.
Colonel Webber delivered an eloquent address of welcome.
Colonel Webber and Fellow-citizens—I think it might be said to-day
that New Hampshire has "gone wet," as they say when the
election returns come in on a vote against prohibition. I am very
much obliged to you for this extraordinary manifestation of your
interest, for to stand in this downpour of rain is certainly an evidence
that you have a most friendly interest in this little party of
tourists, who touch in a journey through Vermont the mainspring
of the State of New Hampshire. I have been talking about Vermont
for the last two or three days, but if you will take the pains,
in the comfort of your own homesteads, to read all the good things
I have said about Vermont, and then understand that they are all
said of New Hampshire, it will abbreviate my speech and will be
expressive of my opinion of that sturdy, enterprising, masterful
New England character which you share with them. [Applause.]
Whenthe train arrived at Bellows Falls, the rain was
pouring in torrents and the President was conducted to the
Opera House by the veterans of E. H. Stoughton Post,
G. A. R. The Committee of Reception consisted of Hon.
Wm. A. Russell, Hon. A. N. Swain, Judge L. M. Read,
Barnes Cannon, Jr., Wyman Flint, John T. Moore, C.
W. Osgood, Thomas E. O'Brien, George H. Babbitt, and
Capt. Walter Taylor, the latter a veteran of eighty years,[540]who marshalled the hosts for Gen. Wm. Henry Harrison
in 1836 and '40. The building was packed.
Mr. Swain introduced President Harrison, who said:
My Fellow-citizens—I will wait a moment until they turn out the
footlights. They put a barrier between us, and I always prefer to
get my light from above. [Applause.] We can only tarry in this
busy city a few moments. The inclement character of the day has
driven us to shelter, and the finding of a shelter has consumed
some small part of the allotment of time which our schedule gives
to you. I greatly appreciate the value and importance of these
manufacturing centres, which are now, fortunately for us, not
characteristic of New England alone, but are found west of the
Ohio and of the Mississippi and of the Missouri. I am one of those
who believe that in a diversification of pursuits we make most
rapid increase in wealth and attain best social relations and development.
I am one of those who believe that Providence did not
set apart the United States to be a purely agricultural region,
furnishing its surplus to supply the lack of other people of the
world while they do all the manufacturing for us. I think there
are suggestions in our very geographical position, and a great
many of them in our history and experience, that we may well
desire and reach for that condition in which we shall raise our own
food and in which a manufacturing class, withdrawn from agriculture
and other pursuits, shall furnish the farmer a market for
his surplus near to his fields and gardens, while he exchanges with
the farmer the products of the shop and the loom.
I would not introduce politics. I do not intend to cross any
lines of division, but I think we all agree, though we may differ as
to the means by which it is to be done, that the nearer together the
producer and the consumer can be brought the less waste there is
in transportation and the greater the wealth. [Applause.] It is
known to you all that our 65,000,000 people furnish per capita a
larger market than any other like number of people. This grows
out of the fact that our capacity for purchasing is larger than is
found in those countries where poverty holds a larger sway. The
workingman buys more, has more to buy with in America than in
any other land in the world. [Applause.] I mentioned the other
day at St. Albans that this was the era of the battle for a market.
The whole world is engaged in it. The thought was suggested to
me by a sentence in the address of President Bartlett at the observance
of the centennial of the battle of Bennington in 1877. He says,
"Trading Manchester furnished two regiments to Burgoyne to con[541]quer
a market." The foreign policy of the United States has never
been selfish. There has always been, if you will trace it through the
struggles of Greece and of our South American neighbors for independence
and a free Government, a brave, generous tone of sympathy
with struggling people the world round in our diplomatic
policy. I think we may well challenge comparison with the
foreign policy of any other great Government in the world in this
regard. It has never been our policy to push our trade forward at
the point of the bayonet. We have always believed that it should
be urged upon the ground of mutual advantage; and upon this
ground alone are we now endeavoring, by every means in our power,
to open the markets of our sister republics in Central and South
America to the products of American shops and farmers. [Applause.]
We do not covet their territory. The day of filibustering aggression
has gone by in the United States. We covet their good will.
We wish for them settled institutions of government, and we
desire those exchanges that are mutually profitable. We have
found that we were receiving from some of these countries enormous
annual imports of sugar, coffee, and hides, and we have now placed
these articles on the free list upon the condition that they give to
the products of the United States fair reciprocity. [Applause.] If
our own laws, or any aggressive movement we are making for a
larger share in the commerce of the world, should excite the commercial
jealousy and rivalry of other countries we shall not complain
if those rivalries find only proper expressions. We have
come to a time in our development as a Nation when I believe that
interest on money is low enough for us to turn some of our
accumulated capital from the railways into steam transportation
on the sea; that the time has come when we shall recover a full
participation in the carrying trade of the world, when under the
American flag steamships shall carry our products to neighboring
markets and bring back their exchange to our harbors. Larger
foreign markets for the products of our farms and of our factories
and a larger share in the carrying trade of the world, peaceful relations
with all mankind, with naval and coast defences that will
silently make an effective argument on the side of peace, are the
policies that I would pursue. [Applause.]
Justbefore the train reached Brattleboro the rain ceased,
and the President rode in a procession to the house of Col.
J. J. Estey. The Committee of Reception consisted of
Colonel Estey, Col. Kittredge Haskins, Dr. H. D. Holton,
N. I. Hawley, F. W. Childs, ex-Governor Holbrook, Judge
Wheeler, Hon. B. D. Harris, Hon. J. L. Martin, E. C. Crosby,
Judge R. W. Clarke, C. F. Thompson, Col. W. C. Holbrook,
George S. Dowley, Colonel Fuller, Dr. Conland, Dr.
Ketchum, and G. A. Hines. Veterans of the G. A. R.,
and the Estey Guard, escorted the Chief Executive through
the city. Several thousand were assembled on the grounds.
Colonel Estey welcomed and presented the President,
who made the following address:
My Fellow citizens—Governor Proctor held out to me the suggestion
that this trip to Vermont would be a very restful one. He
has the queerest appreciation of what rest means of any man I
know. [Laughter.]
When I attended the centennial demonstration of the inauguration
of Washington in New York, I spent part of one day on the
bridge of theDespatchbowing to the fleet in the bay as we moved
down to the Battery, and the balance of the day shaking hands at
the City Hall, attending a ball at night; ten hours the next day
reviewing a procession, with a banquet at night; and about as
many hours the day following reviewing the civic procession; and
when released from the stand about 5 o'clock in the evening I
hurried to the Jersey City depot to take the train, scarcely able to
stand upon my feet. One of the gentlemen of the committee said
to me: "Well, Mr. President, I hope you have enjoyed these three
days of rest in New York." [Laughter.]
I wish I could see you more satisfactorily than I am able to do
on a hurried trip like this, but Governor Proctor kept me up very
late last night, and he was the last man down to breakfast this
morning himself.
All that I have seen in your State has but increased the respect
I have always entertained for your people. My recent journey of
somewhat great length through the country has very deeply impressed
upon me the fact of the unity of our people. The building[543]of these great railroad lines making every part of every State
familiar, and stretching across the continent so as to bring within
easy access the most distant parts of our country, has had a great
tendency to unify our people and to wipe out whatever there was
provincial or local in our character. It has rubbed off some of the
edges of the New England character, and has rubbed on some of the
New England polish upon the West. In fact, wherever we have
any combining, nothing makes it homogeneous except a thorough
mixer, and the American people have certainly had a most thorough
mixing. [Cheers.]
One of your war Governors was saying to me to-day, as we came
along in the train, your own distinguished fellow-citizen, that on
a journey West not long ago everywhere Vermont men came to
meet him; and as I went recently across the continent the railroad
train scarcely stopped at any station that some one from Indiana
did not reach up his hand and claim recognition; and so it is in
all the States.
The West is now turning a little back toward the East, and I
have found some people, who probably had some ancestral connection
with New England, but whose birth, early residence, and business
life were in the West, who have come back to the old home.
All this is pleasant, all this is surety of the future of our country.
It is pleasant to know that the South is being obliterated, that all
that made it distinctive in the sense of separation or alienation is
being gradually wiped out. [Applause.]
Of course, the prejudices of generations are not like marks upon
the blackboard, that can be rubbed out with a sponge. These are
more like the deep glacial lines that the years have left in the rock;
but the water, when that surface is exposed to its quiet, gentle, and
perpetual influence, wears even these out, until the surface is
smooth and uniform. And so these influences are at work in our
whole country, and we should be hopeful for it, hopeful for its
future. I am sure you each feel pride in your American citizenship,
and would show readiness to defend it in war, and I am sure
that from every class of your community would come the response:
"We will maintain it, honorable and high, in peace."
I thank you most sincerely for your friendly greeting, and regret
that I am not able to speak to you more satisfactorily, and can only
accept with a heart full of appreciation these marks of your respect.
[Applause.]
ThePresident and his party were guests of Secretary
Proctor on the night of the 27th, at the village of Proctor, in
the Green Mountains. The morning of the 28th, the party
visited Rutland, and were met by the local Reception Committee:
J. C. Baker, H. H. Dyer, W. G. Veazey, ex-Judge
Barrett, J. W. Cramton, Dr. J. D. Hanrahan, C.
H. Joyce, J. N. Woodfin, E. P. Gilson, P. W. Clement,
George E. Lawrence, Henry F. Field, John N. Baxter, P.
M. Meldon, John A. Sheldon, George J. Wardwell, Dr.
Norman Seaver, and Henry Carpenter, President of the
village.
Arrived at Memorial Hall the President was greeted by
a large assemblage, including many ladies. He was presented
by Colonel Baker and made the following address:
My Fellow-citizens and Comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic—It
gives me great pleasure this morning, tired as I am, to
see and to have an opportunity to express my thanks to this large
assemblage of the good citizens of Rutland. My journey through
your State has been attended with every evidence of respect which
it was possible for the people to bestow. Your chairman has
spoken of the fact that the President of the United States may
travel everywhere through our country without any attendance of
policemen. As I have had occasion to say before, the only peril
he is likely to meet, if the railroads take good care of him and the
cranks keep out of the way, is from the over-kindness of the people
[laughter and applause]; and there is more peril in that than you
will understand at first thought. It is pleasant to stand upon the
steps of this Memorial Hall, erected as a place of deposit for
trophies of the great Civil War and as a monument of honor to
those soldiers from Vermont who aided so conspicuously in making
that war successful. We cannot tell how much hung upon that
contest. No orator has yet been inspired to describe adequately
the gravity of the great issue which was fought out upon the battlefields
of the War of the Rebellion. We say it was a contest to
preserve the unity of our republic, and so it was; but what dismemberment
would have meant; how greatly it would have
increased the cost of government; how sadly it would have dis[545]turbed
the plan of our border communities; how it would have
degraded in the eyes of the world this great people; how it would
have rejoiced the enemies of popular government, no tongue has
yet adequately described. But it was not to be so. God has desired
that this experiment of free government should have a more perfect
trial, and it was impossible that the brave men of the loyal
States should consent to dismemberment of the Union. We were
very patient, so patient, in the early contest, as it ranged through
the great debate of convention and Congress that our brethren of
the South altogether mistook the temper of our people. Undoubtedly
there were evidences that the men of trade were reluctant
to have those lines of profitable communication, which had been
so long maintained with the South, broken off. Undoubtedly that
character so undesirable in our politics—the doughface—was particularly
conspicuous in those days of discussion, but we were
altogether misjudged when the people of the South concluded that
they might support their threats of disunion which had so long
rung in Congress, and so long filled their boasting press, by force
of arms.
I shall never forget, nor will any of you who are old enough to
remember it, that great electric thrill and shock which passed
through our whole country when the first gun was fired at Sumter.
Debate was closed. Our orators were withdrawn, and a great
wave of determined patriotism swept over the country higher than
any tidal wave ever lifted itself upon a devastated coast [applause],
and it was not to be stayed in its progress until the last vestige of
rebellion had been swept from the face of our beloved land. The
men of New England were a peaceful people. The farmers and
the farmers' sons were not brawlers. They were not found at the
tavern. They were abiding under the sheltering moral influences
and quietude of these New England hills. But the man who thought
that the spirit of 1776 had been quenched was badly mistaken.
The same resolute love of liberty, the same courage to face danger
for a cause that had its inspiration in high moral purposes and
resolves abided in the hearts of your people. [Applause.] Possibly
the war might have been avoided if the South had understood this,
but it was so written in the severe but benevolent purposes of God.
There was a great scroll of emancipation to be written. There was
a martyr President, who was to affix his name to a declaration that
would be as famous as that to which your fathers fixed their signature
in 1776. It was to be in truth as well as in theory a free
people [applause], and there was no other pathway to emancipation
than along the bloody track of armies, not seeing at the be[546]ginning
nor having the purpose that finally was accomplished, but
guided by the hand of power and wisdom that is above us and
over us to the accomplishment of that glorious result that struck
the shackles from four millions of slaves. [Applause.]
I greet most affectionately these comrades of the war who are
before me to-day. Let them abide in honor in all your communities.
Let shafts of marble and bronze lift themselves in all your
towns to tell the story of patriots' work well done and to teach
the generations that are to come how worthy their fathers were.
Let us preserve all these inspiring lessons of history, all these
individual examples of heroism, of which Vermont furnished so
many during the war. Let them not be forgotten. Let them be
the illuminated and inspiring pages of your State's history, and
then, whatever shock may come to us in the future, whenever
the hand of anarchy or disorder shall be raised, whenever foreign
powers shall seek to invade the rights or liberties of this great
people, there will be found again an impenetrable bulwark in the
brave hearts of a sturdy and patriotic people. [Applause.] You
will, I am sure, crown your kindness by excusing me from attempting
further speech and allowing me to express, as I part from you,
my good wishes for Vermont and all her good people. [Applause.]
Onthe return to Proctor in the evening the President
was tendered the final reception of his trip to Vermont.
The village was elaborately decorated; an illuminated
evergreen arch spanned the entrance to Secretary Proctor's
beautiful grounds. The residences and grounds of E. R.
Morse, F. D. Proctor, B. F. Taylor, W. E. Higbee, G. H.
Davis, E. J. Boyce, J. H. Edson, and H. E. Spencer were
also brilliantly illuminated. From a platform fronting the
Secretary's home the party reviewed the procession of
1,000 workmen from the marble quarries.
Secretary Proctor, in an affectionate address, introduced
President Harrison, who spoke as follows:
It is not my privilege to call you neighbors, but I am sure I may
call you friends. This journey in Vermont is crowned to-night by
a reception and a good-by that is surpassingly brilliant and artis[547]tic
in its preparation and one that I have never seen exceeded.
But above all this, I have been able here in Proctor to witness in
its best manifestation that which I have seen elsewhere in New
England and especially in Vermont—a community of workers,
men industriously pursuing mechanical avocations and doing it
under conditions of the greatest possible comfort. As I look upon
these homes in which you dwell and contrast them with the
wretchedness of the crowded tenement-houses of our great cities;
as I inhale to-night the bracing air of these mountains, and as my
eye has looked to-day upon their green summits, I have said how
happy is the lot of that man and that woman who work in one of
these bright, wholesome New England villages. [Applause.] It
has seemed to me that the relation of our mutual friend who has
inaugurated and developed these works in which many of you find
employment was that of a public benefactor and a personal friend.
[Applause.] The simplicity and naturalness of his own life among
you, his ready appreciation of the loyalty and intelligence of those
who are employed by him, his interest in their success in life, is
the ideal relation between the employer and his workmen. [Applause.]
I would to God it was always and everywhere so, that
when a man is put at a machine he should not be regarded by his
employer as a part of it, that the human nature, the aspirations of
a man, should still be recognized, and the relations with the employer
be that of mutual confidence and helpfulness and respect!
[Applause.]
You are sharers in the responsibilities of local government, of
the government of your State and of the Nation, of which Vermont
is one of the honored members. I am sure that you have pride in
the faithful discharge of all these duties. I cannot but feel that
our national policy should be in the direction of saving our working
people from that condition of hopelessness which comes when
wages are barely adequate to the sustenance of animal life. [Applause.]
There is no hope for any community where this state of
things exists, and there will be no hope for the Nation should it
become the general condition of the workingmen of America. That
man or woman out of whose heart hope has gone, who sees nothing
better in life, before whom the vista of life stretches in one dead
level of unending and half-requited toil, that man's estate is calculated
to make him reckless in character. It is one of the beneficent
conditions of citizenship here that there are no disabilities
put in the way of ambitions and the aspiring. I hope it may
always be so. I cannot always sympathize with that demand
which we hear so frequently for cheap things. Things may be too[548]cheap. They are too cheap when the man who produces them upon
the farm or the man or woman who produces them in the factory
does not get out of them living wages with a margin for old age
and for a dowry for the incidents that are to follow. [Applause.]
I pity that man who wants a coat so cheap that the man or woman
who produces the cloth or shapes it into a garment shall starve in
the process. [Applause.]
I am most profoundly grateful to you, my fellow-citizens, and
to my good friend Governor Proctor, for this beautiful demonstration—this
magnificent rural welcome which we have had here to-day.
It will live always in my memory. I shall carry this
community in my thoughts as one of the best types of American
neighborhood life. I have found in him a most valuable contribution
to the administration of the Government at Washington.
[Applause.] You cannot know fully how he has grown into the
respect and confidence of all who have been associated with him
in the Cabinet and of all our legislators in Congress without distinction
of party. I regret that there is some danger that you may
reclaim him for Vermont [applause]; yet it is quite natural that
it should be so, and I shall do the best I can to get a substitute.
The labors of public office at Washington are full of high responsibility
and most burdensome toil. No man is endowed with an
incapacity to make mistakes. We can, however, all of us, in public
or private trust, be sure of our motives. These are our own.
We can know whether we are pursuing low and selfish ends or
have set before us the general good, the highest good of all our
people. Judgment upon what has been done is with you. I am
sure only that I have had it in my heart to do that which should
in the highest degree promote the prosperity of our people and lift
the glorious flag yet higher in the esteem of the world. [Great
applause.] We have been endeavoring to open a foreign market
for American trade. If these efforts are met, as I trust they will
be, by enterprise on the part of our merchants and manufacturers,
I do not doubt that the next ten years will see a most gratifying
increase in our foreign trade. [Applause.] They should diligently
set themselves to the study of the new markets into which their
goods may now go. The most intelligent representatives should be
sent there, and their goods adapted to the market that is to be
supplied. This I have no doubt they will do, and I add the expectation
that we shall presently have a most gratifying increase in
the American merchant marine. [Applause.]
President Harrisonon the above date received at the
Executive Mansion a delegation of prominent citizens of
Georgia, who extended to him a formal invitation to attend
the Augusta Exposition in November. The delegation
comprised the following citizens and Exposition directors:
Hon. Patrick Walsh, Walter M. Jackson, J. P. Verdery,
H. G. Smith, J. L. Gow, C. H. Ballard, J. J. Doughty, W.
A. Garrett, G. J. Howard, W. H. Landrum, J. E. Barton,
W. E. Keener, Percy Burum, J. P. Bones, J. M. Cranston,
Crawford Mays, Maurice Walton, L. J. Henry, T. R.
Gibson, P. J. O'Connor, Jules Rival, Joseph Ganahl, Jr.,
W. H. Barrett, Jr., P. A. Stovall, W. E. Platt, A. J. Gouley,
Frank X. Dorr, and Hon. J. C. Clements.
Chairman Walsh, on behalf of the committee, made the
invitation address, to which the President, responding,
said:
Gentlemen—I recall with pleasure the visit made by some of
your representatives. I think I have repeatedly, on every suitable
occasion, especially during my recent visit to the South, expressed
my sincere hope of the development of those marvellous resources
so long hidden from sight, but now about to be opened up. I had
occasion to say then that you would realize the advantage of combining
manufactures with agriculture. The old system made of
Georgia a plantation State. I would not have it less so. But you
may still develop other industries without destroying the surface
of the country. There is no competition between these industries;
one does not supersede the other. The farmer still has his near
market for some products that will not bear transportation. Out
of this diversity I think the highest development will come. Recently
I made a trip through New England and was deeply impressed
with the numerous industries and small factories showing
in little places, where the lives and homes of the workmen were so
much cleaner and purer than in the great cities, and this was
made possible by the great diversity of small interests. In Vermont
I came upon a busy little factory surrounded by cottages in the
midst of the hills. I was told that the proprietor made stetho[550]scopes,
and out of a small beginning had built up a great trade.
These little things make happy homes; bring money, trade, and
development. I am greatly interested in these things, and I would
be very happy to see this development in Alabama and Georgia as
in any Northern State. We all wish it. Whether I can be with
you or not I cannot now say. I have a good many very important
matters demanding attention from now on to the meeting of Congress.
Some are home matters of importance and some are foreign.
Looking back over the last year, it would seem probable that there
was a conspiracy among the powers to see that those in responsible
places should have no rest. Many of these things must now come
to my personal attention. If I cannot be with you, you will know
that my heart is with you. If I can I will come, but the time
now being so close to the meeting of Congress it is doubtful.
TheEcumenical Conference of the Methodist Church
convened in the Metropolitan Church at Washington, D.
C., on October 7, 1891. Rt. Rev. Thomas Bowman, Senior
Bishop of the Church in America, presided at the opening,
and Rev. William Arthur, M.A., of London, delivered the
inaugural sermon. It was in every respect the greatest
assembly in the history of Methodism.
Among a few of the distinguished preachers and orators
from abroad were: Rev. T. B. Stephenson, D.D., LL.D.,
Rev. Hugh Price Hughes, M.A., Rev. John Bond, Rev.
F. W. Bourne, Rev. J. Ernest Clapham, and Rev. David
J. Waller, D.D., all of London. The following Washingtonians
comprised the Committee on Reception: Bishop
J. F. Hurst, D.D.; Rev. G. H. Corey, D.D., Chairman;
Rev. C. W. Baldwin, Rev. J. H. Becket, Rev. J. W. E.
Bowen, Rev. T. E. Carson, Rev. R. H. G. Dyson, Rev.
George Elliott, Rev. S. R. Murray, Rev. C. H. Phillips,
Rev. J. A. Price, Rev. E. S. Todd, Rev. L. T. Widerman,
Rev. J. T. Wightman, Rev. L. B. Wilson, Alexander
Ashley, E. S. Atkinson, W. S. Birch, Gen. Cyrus Bussey,
J. F. Chestnut, D. S. Cissell, Robert Cohen, George Comp[551]ton,
L. A. Cornish, G. S. Deering, Robert Dunn, A. B.
Duval, Hon. M. G. Emery, Prof. Edgar Frisbie, D. B.
Groff, T. A. Harding, Gen. S. S. Henkle, W. H. Houghton,
W. J. Hutchinson, Thomas Jarvis, B. F. Leighton, William
Mayse, H. B. Moulton, Hon. Hiram Price, B. Robinson,
W. J. Sibley, T. B. Stahl, B. H. Stinemetz, H. L.
Strang, G. W. F. Swartzell, Frederick Tasker, J. S. Topham,
L. H. Walker, E. S. Wescott, J. B. Wilson, and W.
R. Woodward.
On the tenth day of the Conference, President Harrison,
escorted by Rev. Dr. J. M. King, Secretary, and Rev. Dr.
Corey, the pastor of Metropolitan Church, attended the
session. Other distinguished visitors were Secretary of
the Treasury Foster, Secretary of the Interior Noble, and
Sir Julian Pauncefote, the British Minister.
The chief essay of the session was delivered by Mr.
Thomas Snape, of Liverpool, upon the topic of the day,
"International Arbitration," a subject which made the
presence of the President and the British envoy particularly
appropriate.
As the President ascended to the pulpit, all the delegates
and the great audience instantly arose. The presiding
officer of the day, Rev. T. G. Williams, of Montreal,
presented the distinguished visitor, who was received with
prolonged applause, in which the English delegates led.
President Harrison then addressed the Conference as
follows:
Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen of the Conference—I come here this
morning to make an expression of my respect and esteem for this
great body of delegates assembled from all the countries of the
world, and much more to give a manifestation of my respect and
love for that greater body of Christian men and women for whom
you stand. Every Ecumenical Conference is a distinct step in the
direction, not only of the unification of the Church, but of the
unification of the human race.
Assembling from countries unlike in their civil institutions, from
churches not wholly in accord as to doctrine or church order, you[552]come together to find that the unlikeness is not so great as you
had thought, and to find your common sympathies and common
purposes greater and larger than you had thought—large enough
presently to overspread and to extinguish all these transitory lines
of division.
I am glad to know that as followers of Wesley, whose hymns we
sing, you have been in consultation as to the methods by which
these minor divisions among you might be obliterated. It is the
natural order that subdivisions should be wiped out before the
grand divisions of the Church can be united. [Applause.] Who
does not greatly rejoice that the controversial clash of the churches
is less than it once was; that we hear more of the Master and His
teachings of love and duty than of hair-splitting theological differences?
[Applause.]
Many years ago, while visiting in Wisconsin, when Sunday
came around I went with some friends to the little Methodist
church in an adjoining village. The preacher undertook to overturn
my Presbyterianism. [Laughter and applause.] An irreverent
friend who sat beside me as the young man delivered his
telling blows against Calvinism was constantly emphasizing the
points made by nudging me with his elbow. [Laughter.] Now I
am glad to say that very often since then I have worshipped in
Methodist churches, and that is the last experience of that kind I
have had. [Applause]
You have to-day as the theme of discussion the subject of international
arbitration; and this being a public, or, in a large sense
of the word, a political question, perhaps makes my presence here
as an officer of the United States especially appropriate. [Applause.]
It is a curious incident that some days ago, and before I was
aware of the theme or the occasion which we have here this morning,
I had appointed this afternoon to visit the great gun foundry
of the United States at the navy yard. Things have come in their
proper sequence. I am here at this arbitration meeting before I
go to the gun factory. [Laughter.]
This subject is one that has long attracted the attention, and
I think I may say has, perhaps, as greatly attracted the interest
and adherence of the United States as that of any other Christian
power in the world. [Applause.]
It is known to you all that in the recent conference of the American
states at Washington the proposition was distinctly made and
adopted by the representatives of all, or nearly all, of the governments
of America that, as applied to this hemisphere, all international
disputes should be settled by arbitration. [Applause.]
Of course there are limitations as yet, in the nature of things,
to the complete and general adoption of such a scheme. It is quite
possible to apply arbitration to a dispute as to a boundary line; it
is quite impossible, it seems to me, to apply it to a case of international
feud. If there is present a disposition to subjugate, an
aggressive spirit to seize territory, a spirit of national aggrandizement
that does not stop to consider the rights of other men and other
people—to such a case and to such a spirit international arbitration
has none, or, if any, a remote and difficult application.
It is for a Christian sentiment, manifesting itself in a nation, to
remove forever such causes of dispute; and then what remains will
be the easy subject of adjustment by fair international arbitration.
But I had not intended to enter into a discussion of this great
theme, for the setting forth of which you have appointed those
who have given it special attention. Let me, therefore, say simply
this: that for myself—temporarily in a place of influence in this
country—and much more for the great body of its citizenship, I
express the desire of America for peace with the whole world.
[Applause.] It would have been vain to suggest the pulling down
of block-houses or family disarmament to the settlers on a hostile
Indian frontier. They would have told you rightly that the conditions
were not ripe. And so it may be and is probably true that a
full application of the principle is not presently possible, the devil
still being unchained. [Laughter.]
We will have our gun foundries, and possibly will best promote
the settlement of international disputes by arbitration, by having
it understood that if the appeal is to a fiercer tribunal we shall
not be out of the debate. [Great applause.] There is a unity of the
Church and of humanity, and the lines of progress are the same.
It is by this great Christian sentiment, characterized not only by
a high sense of justice, but by a spirit of love and forbearance,
mastering the civil institutions and governments of the world,
that we shall approach universal peace and adopt arbitration
methods of settling disputes. [Applause.]
Let me thank you, Mr. Chairman, and you, gentlemen of this
Conference, for the privilege of standing before you for a moment,
and for this most cordial welcome which you have given to me.
I beg to express again my high appreciation of the character of
this delegation and the membership of the great Church from
which you come, and to wish that in your remaining deliberations
and in your journeys to far-distant homes you may have the guidance
and care of that God whom we all revere and worship. [Applause.]
Whilethe gubernatorial campaign in Ohio was in
progress and Major McKinley was making his famous
race, the question as to the successful manufacture of
tin plate in the United States was one of the leading issues
of the day. At this juncture W. C. Cronemyer, of the
United States Iron and Steel Tin Plate Works, at Demmler,
Pa., sent President Harrison a box of tin plate manufactured
at the Demmler works, and received in return the
following interesting letter, which was given wide publicity
at the time:
My Dear Sir—I have your letter of October 15, and also a box of
bright tin plate which you send as a specimen of the product being
turned out by the United States Iron and Tin Plate Company.
I have no skill in determining the character of this work; but, to
the eye, it seems to be eminently satisfactory, and I thank you for
this evidence that a new industry has been established in the United
States.
I cannot quite understand how an American can doubt that we
have the mechanical skill and business sagacity to establish successfully
here the manufacture of tin plate. No other country,
certainly, surpasses us in the inventive genius of its citizens or in
the business sagacity of its capitalists. It is surprising to me that
any patriotic American should approach this question with a desire
to see this great and interesting experiment fail, or with an unwillingness
to accept the evidences of its success. It will be a
great step in the direction of commercial independence when we
produce our own tin plate.
It seems to me that nothing, unless it be a lack of faith in the
maintenance of the present law, can thwart this desirable achievement.
I can understand how our success should be doubted and
our failure accepted with satisfaction in Wales, but I cannot understand
how any American can take that view of the question or why
he should always approach every evidence of the successful establishment
of this industry in this country with a disposition to discredit
it and reject it. If the great experiment is to fail, our own
people should not add to the mortification of failure the crime of
rejoicing in it.
InJanuary, 1891, civil war broke out in the republic of
Chili between the Congressional forces and the established
Government under President Balmaceda. Deeds of cruelty
signalized the conflict, which continued until August
28, when the insurgent forces landed near Valparaiso and,
after a bloody engagement, captured that city. President
Balmaceda became a fugitive, and a few weeks later committed
suicide, by shooting, at the residence of Señor
Uribirru, the Argentine Minister.
During the conduct of the war, theItata, an armed vessel,
commanded by an officer of the Chilian insurgent fleet,
was seized under process of the United States Court at
San Diego, Cal., for a violation of the neutrality laws.
This seizure and the subsequent escape, surrender, and
return of theItata, and the strict neutrality observed by
the American Minister, Hon. Patrick Egan, and Admiral
Brown, commanding the squadron, caused the victorious
Chilians to manifest a spirit of animosity toward the Government
and people of the United States. This feeling
was intensified by the false statements published in the
British press, notably the LondonTimes, touching the
conduct of Admiral Brown and the American Minister,
and by the fact that the American Legation, exercising
the established right of asylum, opened its doors to several
prominent political refugees of the defunct Balmaceda
Government.
On October 16, 1891, this hostility culminated in an
attack, in the streets of Valparaiso, upon a number of sailors
attached to the U. S. cruiserBaltimore, who were upon
shore leave. These sailors, wearing their uniforms, were
assaulted by armed men in different localities in the city;
one petty officer was killed outright, and eight seamen[556]seriously wounded, one of whom died a few days later.
Many of their stab wounds were in the back. The news
of this bloody and unprovoked attack sent a thrill of indignation
across the American continent, and it was felt that
the deadly insult must be atoned in blood. The war feeling
was not lessened by the impudent tone of the reply
from the Chilian Minister of Foreign Affairs. American
indignation subsided somewhat pending a judicial inquiry
into the attack, but the determination to expiate the insult
had in no degree abated when, on November 14, Señor
Don Pedro Montt was presented to President Harrison
as the newly accredited Chilian Minister to the United
States.
The reception of a new Minister is ordinarily a very
formal and uninteresting affair, but the circumstances
narrated—with the two governments apparently on the
verge of war—lent an unusual interest to this official meeting;
and the President's remarks, characterized by his
usual frankness and firmness, called forth the approval
of the whole Nation.
The Minister was accompanied by Señors Anibal Cruz,
Secretary of Legation; Guillermo Arenanetegan and
Valentin del Campo, attachés. After the formal introductions
by Secretary Blaine, Señor Montt addressed the
President in Spanish as follows:
Mr. President—I have the honor to present the credentials which
accredit me in the capacity of Envoy Extraordinary and Minister
Plenipotentiary of the republic of Chili in the United States of
North America. The object of the mission which the Government
of Chili has confided to me is to cultivate and maintain the relations
of peace and friendship between the United States and Chili,
which have ever been close and cordial. For the accomplishment
of this purpose I rely upon the kindness and good-will which the
United States Government has always manifested for the representatives
of Chili. Permit me to express my country's sincere wishes
for the prosperity and welfare of this noble country, which is so
highly favored by Providence, and for your own happiness.
Mr. Minister—I am glad to receive from your hands the letters
accrediting you as the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary
of the republic of Chili to the United States. The presence
of a representative of the Government of Chili at this capital
will, I hope, tend to promote a good understanding between the
two governments and the early settlement, upon terms just and
honorable to both, of the diplomatic questions now somewhat urgently
awaiting adjustment. The Government of the United States,
as well as its people, particularly desire and rejoice in the prosperity
of all our neighbors in this hemisphere. Our diplomatic relations
with them have always been and will continue to be free from intermeddling
with their internal affairs. Our people are too just
to desire that the commercial or political advantage of this Government
should be sought by the promotion of disastrous dissensions
in other countries. We hear with sorrow every fresh tale of
war or internal strife, and are always ready to give our friendly
offices to the promotion of peace. If these are not acceptable or
do not avail, it is our policy to preserve an honorable and strict
neutrality, as was done during the recent war in Chili. Tempting
commercial and political advantages may be offered for our aid or
influence by one or the other of the two contending parties, but
this we have not deemed to be consistent with the obligations of
international honor and good-will. This Government was quite
as determined in its refusal to allow a war-vessel of the United
States to carry to a neutral port, where it could be made available
for war purposes, the silver of Balmaceda, as it was to give aid to
the forces opposing him. The questions involved were Chilian
questions, and this Government endeavored to observe those principles
of non-intervention upon which it had so strongly insisted
when civil war disturbed our own people. I cannot doubt that
this policy will commend itself to those who now administer the
Government of Chili; nor can I doubt that when excitement has
given place to calmness, when the truth is ascertained and the
selfish and designing perversions of recent incidents have been
exposed, our respective governments will find a basis of increased
mutual respect, confidence, and friendship.
Mr. Minister, this Government and our people rejoice that peace
has been restored in Chili, and that its Government is the expression
of the free choice of its people. You may assure your honored
President, who has been chosen under circumstances which
so strongly testify to his moderation and to the esteem in which he
is held by the people of all parties, that the Government of the[558]United States entertains only good-will for him and for the people
of Chili, and cannot doubt that the existing and all future differences
between the two governments will find an honorable adjustment.
To you, Mr. Minister, I tender a personal welcome.
In his annual message to Congress, December 9, President
Harrison concludes his remarks upon Chilian affairs
relating to the attack upon the sailors of the cruiserBaltimorewith the following significant paragraphs:
So far as I have yet been able to learn, no other explanation of
this bloody work has been suggested than that it had its origin in
hostility to these men as sailors of the United States, wearing the
uniform of their Government, and not in any individual act or
personal animosity. The attention of the Chilian Government was
at once called to this affair, and a statement of the facts obtained
by the investigation we had conducted was submitted, accompanied
by a request to be advised of any other or qualifying facts in the
possession of the Chilian Government that might tend to relieve
this affair of the appearance of an insult to this Government.
The Chilian Government was also advised that if such qualifying
facts did not exist, this Government would confidently expect full
and prompt reparation.
It is to be regretted that the reply of the Secretary for Foreign
Affairs of the Provisional Government was couched in an offensive
tone. To this no response has been made. This Government is
now awaiting the result of an investigation which has been
conducted by the criminal court at Valparaiso. It is reported unofficially
that the investigation is about completed, and it is expected
that the result will soon be communicated to this Government,
together with some adequate and satisfactory response to
the note by which the attention of Chili was called to this incident.
If these just expectations should be disappointed or further needless
delay intervene, I will, by a special message, bring this matter
again to the attention of Congress for such action as may be
necessary. The entire correspondence with the Government of
Chili will at an early day be submitted to Congress.
[Extract from President's Message, December 9, 1891.]
Onthe evening of August 5, 1888, at Indianapolis, General
Harrison, responding to an address from D. T. Downs,
President of the Terre Haute Railroad Club, and in the
presence of several thousand railroad employees, speaking
of the heroic services rendered by the men who operate
the great railroad lines of the country, said:
I do not doubt that certain and necessary provisions for the safety
of the men who operate these roads will yet be made compulsory
by public and general law. The dangers connected with your calling
are very great, and the public interest, as well as your own,
requires that they should be reduced to the minimum. I do not
doubt that we shall yet require that uniformity in the construction
of railroad cars that will diminish the danger of those, who
must pass between them in order to make up trains.
Consistent with these views, President Harrison, in his
message to Congress, December 9, 1891, made the following
pertinent suggestions:
I have twice before urgently called the attention of Congress to
the necessity of legislation for the protection of the lives of railroad
employees, but nothing has yet been done. During the year
ending June 30, 1890, 369 brakemen were killed and 7,841 maimed
while engaged in coupling cars. The total number of railroad
employees killed during the year was 2,451 and the number injured
22,390. This is a cruel and largely a needless sacrifice, The Government
is spending nearly one million dollars annually to save
the lives of shipwrecked seamen; every steam-vessel is rigidly inspected
and required to adopt the most approved safety appliances.
All this is good; but how shall we excuse the lack of interest and
effort in behalf of this army of brave young men who in our land
commerce are being sacrificed every year by the continued use of
antiquated and dangerous appliances? A law requiring of every
railroad engaged in inter-State commerce the equipment each year
of a given per cent. of its freight cars with automatic couplers and
air brakes would compel an agreement between the roads as to the
kind of brakes and couplers to be used, and would very soon and
very greatly reduce the present fearful death-rate among railroad
employees.
[From Annual Message to Congress, December 9, 1891.]
Perhapsno official utterance of President Harrison
received more serious and profound consideration—as indicated
through the press of the day—than the following
patriotic admonishment regarding the danger lurking
within certain possible methods of choosing presidential
electors. He said:
The method of appointment by the States of electors of President
and Vice-President has recently attracted renewed interest by reason
of a departure by the State of Michigan from the method which
had become uniform in all the States. Prior to 1832 various methods
had been used by the different States, and even by the same
State. In some the choice was made by the Legislature; in others
electors were chosen by districts, but more generally by the voters
of the whole State upon a general ticket. The movement toward
the adoption of the last-named method had an early beginning and
went steadily forward among the States, until in 1832 there remained
but a single State—South Carolina—that had not adopted it. That
State, until the Civil War, continued to choose its electors by a
vote of the Legislature, but after the war changed its method and
conformed to the practice of the other States. For nearly sixty
years all the States save one have appointed their electors by a
popular vote upon a general ticket, and for nearly thirty years this
method was universal.
After a full test of other methods, without important division or
dissent in any State and without any purpose of party advantage,
as we must believe, but solely upon the considerations that uniformity
was desirable and that general election in territorial divisions
not subject to change was most consistent with the popular
character of our institutions, best preserved the equality of the
voters, and perfectly removed the choice of President from the
baneful influence of the "gerrymander," the practice of all the
States was brought into harmony. That this concurrence should
now be broken is, I think, an unfortunate and even a threatening
episode, and one that may well suggest whether the States that
still give their approval to the old and prevailing method ought
not to secure, by a constitutional amendment, a practice which
has had the approval of all. The recent Michigan legislation pro[561]vides
for choosing what are popularly known as the Congressional
electors for President by Congressional districts, and the two Senatorial
electors by districts created for that purpose. This legislation
was, of course, accompanied by a new Congressional apportionment,
and the two statutes bring the electoral vote of the State
under the influence of the "gerrymander."
These gerrymanders for Congressional purposes are in most cases
buttressed by a gerrymander of the legislative districts, thus making
it impossible for a majority of the legal voters of the State to
correct the apportionment and equalize the Congressional districts.
A minority rule is established that only a political convulsion can
overthrow. I have recently been advised that in one county of a
certain State three districts for the election of members of the Legislature
are constituted as follows: One has 65,000 population, one
15,000, and one 10,000; while in another county, detached, non-contiguous
sections have been united to make a legislative district.
These methods have already found effective application to the choice
of Senators and Representatives in Congress, and now an evil start
has been made in the direction of applying them to the choice by
the States of electors of President and Vice-President. If this is
accomplished, we shall then have the three great departments of
the Government in the grasp of the "gerrymander," the legislative
and executive directly and the judiciary indirectly, through the
power of appointment.
An election implies a body of electors having prescribed qualifications,
each one of whom has an equal value and influence in
determining the result. So when the Constitution provides that
"each State shall appoint [elect], in such manner as the legislature
thereof may direct, a number of electors," etc., an unrestricted
power was not given to the legislatures in the selection of
the methods to be used. "A republican form of government" is
guaranteed by the Constitution to each State, and the power given
by the same instrument to the legislatures of the States to prescribe
methods for the choice, by the State, of electors must be exercised
under that limitation. The essential features of such a government
are the right of the people to choose their own officers and the
nearest practicable equality of value in the suffrages given in
determining that choice.
It will not be claimed that the power given to the Legislature
would support a law providing that the persons receiving the smallest
vote should be the electors, or a law that all the electors should be
chosen by the voters of a single Congressional district. The State
is to choose, and under the pretence of regulating methods the[562]legislature can neither vest the right of choice elsewhere nor adopt
methods not conformable to republican institutions. It is not my
purpose here to discuss the question whether a choice by the Legislature
or by the voters of equal single districts is a choice by the
State, but only to recommend such regulation of this matter by
constitutional amendment as will secure uniformity and prevent
that disgraceful partisan jugglery to which such a liberty of choice,
if it exist, offers a temptation.
Nothing just now is more important than to provide every
guaranty for the absolutely fair and free choice by an equal
suffrage, within the respective States, of all the officers of the
national Government, whether that suffrage is applied directly, as
in the choice of members of the House of Representatives, or indirectly,
as in the choice of Senators and electors of President.
Respect for public officers and obedience to law will not cease to be
the characteristics of our people until our elections cease to declare
the will of majorities fairly ascertained, without fraud, suppression,
or gerrymander. If I were called upon to declare wherein our
chief national danger lies, I should say, without hesitation, in the
overthrow of majority control by the suppression or perversion of
the popular suffrage. That there is a real danger here all must
agree, but the energies of those who see it have been chiefly expended
in trying to fix responsibility upon the opposite party,
rather than in efforts to make such practices impossible by either
party.
Is it not possible now to adjourn that interminable and inconclusive
debate while we take, by consent, one step in the direction
of reform by eliminating the gerrymander, which has been denounced
by all parties, as an influence in the selection of electors
of President and members of Congress? All the States have, acting
freely and separately, determined that the choice of electors by
a general ticket is the wisest and safest method, and it would seem
there could be no objection to a constitutional amendment making
that method permanent. If a legislature chosen in one year upon
purely local questions should, pending a presidential contest, meet,
rescind the law for a choice upon a general ticket, and provide for
the choice of electors by the legislature, and this trick should
determine the result, it is not too much to say that the public peace
might be seriously and widely endangered.
I have alluded to the "gerrymander" as affecting the method of
selecting electors of President by Congressional districts, but the
primary intent and effect of this form of political robbery have
relation to the selection of members of the House of Representa[563]tives.
The power of Congress is ample to deal with this threatening
and intolerable abuse. The unfailing test of sincerity in election
reform will be found in a willingness to confer as to remedies
and to put into force such measures as will most effectually preserve
the right of the people to free and equal representation.
An attempt was made in the last Congress to bring to bear the
constitutional powers of the general Government for the correction
of frauds against the suffrage. It is important to know whether
the opposition to such measures is really vested in particular
features supposed to be objectionable or includes any proposition
to give to the election laws of the United States adequacy to the
correction of grave and acknowledged evils. I must yet entertain
the hope that it is possible to secure a calm, patriotic consideration
of such constitutional or statutory changes as may be necessary to
secure the choice of the officers of the Government to the people
by fair apportionments and free elections. I believe it would be
possible to constitute a commission, non-partisan in its membership
and composed of patriotic, wise, and impartial men, to whom
a consideration of the question of the evils connected with our
election system and methods might be committed with a good
prospect of securing unanimity in some plan for removing or mitigating
those evils. The Constitution would permit the selection of
the commission to be vested in the Supreme Court, if that method
would give the best guaranty of impartiality.
This commission should be charged with the duty of inquiring
into the whole subject of the law of elections as related to the choice
of officers of the national Government, with a view to securing to
every elector a free and unmolested exercise of the suffrage and as
near an approach to an equality of value in each ballot cast as is
attainable.
While the policies of the general Government upon the tariff,
upon the restoration of our merchant marine, upon river and harbor
improvements, and other such matters of grave and general
concern are liable to be turned this way or that by the results of
Congressional elections and administrative policies, sometimes involving
issues that tend to peace or war, to be turned this way
or that by the results of a presidential election, there is a rightful
interest in all the States and in every Congressional district that
will not be deceived or silenced by the audacious pretence that the
question of the right of any body of legal voters in any State or in
any Congressional district to give their suffrages freely upon these
general questions is a matter only of local concern or control. The
demand that the limitations of suffrage shall be found in the law,[564]and only there, is a just demand, and no just man should resent
or resist it. My appeal is, and must continue to be, for a consultation
that shall "proceed with candor, calmness, and patience
upon the lines of justice and humanity, not of prejudice and
cruelty."
To the consideration of these very grave questions I invite not
only the attention of Congress, but that of all patriotic citizens.
We must not entertain the delusion that our people have ceased to
regard a free ballot and equal representation as the price of their
allegiance to laws and to civil magistrates.
I have been greatly rejoiced to notice many evidences of the
increased unification of our people and of a revived national
spirit. The vista that now opens to us is wider and more glorious
than ever before. Gratification and amazement struggle for supremacy
as we contemplate the population, wealth, and moral
strength of our country. A trust, momentous in its influence upon
our people and upon the world, is for a brief time committed to
us, and we must not be faithless to its first condition—the defence
of the free and equal influence of the people in the choice of public
officers and in the control of public affairs.
Justas this book is going to the printer there has appeared
a most satisfactory closing chapter—the masterly
message on the Chilian difficulty. This message quickly
won the approval of the civilized world, and has stirred,
as it has not been stirred in years, the patriotic pride of
our own people. It will rank side by side with Monroe's
famous declaration of American policy. It at once impresses
one with its character as the official statement of
their position by a powerful yet generous people, who,
conscious of their own strength, will firmly assert their
rights and maintain their dignity, without any disposition
to despoil or humiliate their weaker neighbors. The
position taken by the President was so firm and the justice
of our claims was so clearly set forth that three days
after the date of the message he was enabled to announce[565]to Congress that Chili had substantially complied with
our demands.
Such parts of the message as contained only a recital of
facts, or were not necessary to an understanding of the policy
announced have, for the sake of brevity, been omitted.
To the Senate and House of Representatives:
We have now received from the Chilian Government an abstract
of the conclusions of theFiscal Generalupon the testimony taken
by the Judge of Crimes in an investigation which was made to extend
over nearly three months. I very much regret to be compelled
to say that this report does not enable me to modify the conclusion
announced in my annual message. I am still of the opinion
that our sailors were assaulted, beaten, stabbed, and killed,
not for anything they or any one of them had done, but for what
the Government of the United States had done, or was charged
with having done, by its civil officers and naval commanders. If
that be the true aspect of the case, the injury was to the Government
of the United States, not to these poor sailors who were assaulted
in a manner so brutal and so cowardly.
It is not claimed that every personal collision or injury in which
a sailor or officer of such naval vessel visiting the shore may be
involved raises an international question; but I am clearly of the
opinion that where such sailors or officers are assaulted by a resident
populace, animated by hostility to the Government whose
uniform these sailors and officers wear, and in resentment of acts
done by their Government, not by them, their nation must take
notice of the event as one involving an infraction of its rights and
dignity—not in a secondary way, as where a citizen is injured and
presents his claim through his own Government, but in a primary
way, precisely as if its minister or consul or the flag itself had
been the object of the same character of assault. The officers and
sailors of theBaltimorewere in the harbor of Valparaiso under the
orders of their Government, not by their own choice. They were
upon the shore by the implied invitation of the Government of
Chili and with the approval of their commanding officer; and it
does not distinguish their case from that of a consul that his stay
is more permanent or that he holds the express invitation of the
local government to justify his longer residence. Nor does it affect
the question that the injury was the act of a mob. If there had[566]been no participation by the police or military in this cruel work
and no neglect on their part to extend protection, the case would
still be one, in my opinion, when its extent and character are considered,
involving international rights.
Here follow the details of the attack upon the sailors
of theBaltimorein the streets of Valparaiso, October
16th.
The scene ... is very graphically set before us by the Chilian testimony.
The American sailors, who, after so long an examination,
have not been found guilty of any breach of the peace so far as
the Chilian authorities are able to discover, unarmed and defenceless,
are fleeing for their lives, pursued by overwhelming numbers,
and fighting only to aid their own escape from death or to succor
some mate whose life is in greater peril. Eighteen of them are
brutally stabbed and beaten, while one Chilian seems, from the
report, to have suffered some injury; but how serious or with what
character or weapon, or whether by a missile thrown by our men
or by some of his fellow-rioters, is unascertained.
The pretence that our men were fighting "with stones, clubs, and
bright arms" is, in view of these facts, incredible. It is further
refuted by the fact that our prisoners, when searched, were absolutely
without arms, only seven penknives being found in the
possession of the men arrested, while there were received by our
men more than thirty stab wounds, every one of which was inflicted
in the back, and almost every contused wound was in the
back or back of the head. The evidence of the ship's officer of
the day is that even the jack-knives of the men were taken from
them before leaving the ship....
No amount of evasion or subterfuge is able to cloud our clear
vision of this brutal work....
It is quite remarkable and quite characteristic of the management
of this affair by the Chilian police authorities that we should
now be advised that Seaman Davidson, of theBaltimore, has been
included in the indictment, his offence being, so far as I have been
able to ascertain, that he attempted to defend a shipmate against
an assailant who was striking at him with a knife. The perfect
vindication of our men is furnished by this report; one only is
found to have been guilty of criminal fault, and that for an act
clearly justifiable....
The evidence of our sailors clearly shows that the attack was expected
by the Chilian people, that threats had been made against our[567]men, and that, in one case somewhat early in the afternoon, the
keeper of one house into which some of our men had gone closed
his establishment in anticipation of the attack, which he advised
them would be made upon them as darkness came on....
Several of our men sought security from the mob by such complete
or partial changes in their dress as would conceal the fact of
their being seamen of theBaltimore, and found it then possible to
walk the streets without molestation. These incidents conclusively
establish that the attack was upon the uniform—the nationality—and
not upon the men.
The testimony of Captain Jenkins, of the American merchant shipKeweenaw, which had gone to Valparaiso for repairs, and who
was a witness of some part of the assault upon the crew of theBaltimore,
is strongly corroborative of the testimony of our own
sailors when he says that he saw Chilian sentries drive back a seaman,
seeking shelter, upon a mob that was pursuing him. The
officers and men of Captain Jenkins' ship furnish the most conclusive
testimony as to the indignities which were practised toward
Americans in Valparaiso. When American sailors, even of merchant
ships, can only secure their safety by denying their nationality,
it must be time to readjust our relations with a government
that permits such demonstrations.
As to the participation of the police, the evidence of our sailors
shows that our men were struck and beaten by police officers before
and after arrest, and that one at least was dragged with a lasso
about his neck by a mounted policeman. That the death of Riggin
was the result of a rifle-shot fired by a policeman or soldier on duty
is shown directly by the testimony of Johnson, in whose arms he was
at the time, and by the evidence of Charles Langen, an American
sailor not then a member of theBaltimore'screw, who stood close by
and saw the transaction. The Chilian authorities do not pretend to
fix the responsibility of this shot upon any particular person, but
avow their inability to ascertain who fired it, further than that it
was fired from a crowd....
The communications of the Chilian Government in relation to
this cruel and disastrous attack upon our men, as will appear from
the correspondence, have not in any degree taken the form of a
manly and satisfactory expression of regret, much less of apology.
The event was of so serious a character that, if the injuries suffered
by our men had been wholly the result of an accident in a Chilian
port, the incident was grave enough to have called for some public
expression of sympathy and regret from the local authorities. It[568]is not enough to say that the affair was lamentable, for humanity
would require that expression, even if the beating and killing of
our men had been justifiable. It is not enough to say that the incident
is regretted, coupled with the statement that the affair
was not of an unusual character in ports where foreign sailors are
accustomed to meet. It is not for a generous and sincere government
to seek for words of small or equivocal meaning in which to
convey to a friendly power an apology for an offence so atrocious as
this. In the case of the assault by a mob in New Orleans upon the
Spanish consulate in 1851, Mr. Webster wrote to the Spanish minister,
Mr. Calderon, that the acts complained of were "a disgraceful
and flagrant breach of duty and propriety," and that his Government
"regrets them as deeply as Minister Calderon or his Government
could possibly do;" that "these acts have caused the President
great pain, and he thinks a proper acknowledgment is due to Her
Majesty's Government." He invited the Spanish consul to return
to his post, guaranteeing protection, and offered to salute the
Spanish flag if the consul should come in a Spanish vessel. Such
a treatment by the Government of Chili of this assault would
have been more creditable to the Chilian authorities; and much less
can hardly be satisfactory to a government that values its dignity
and honor.
On the 21st instant I caused to be communicated to the Government
of Chili, by the American minister at Santiago, the conclusions
of this Government after a full consideration of all the
evidence and of every suggestion affecting this matter, and to these
conclusions I adhere. They were stated as follows:
"First. That the assault is not relieved of the aspect which the
early information of the event gave to it, viz.: That of an attack
upon the uniform of the United States Navy, having its origin
and motive in a feeling of hostility to this Government, and not
in any act of the sailors or of any of them.
"Second. That the public authorities of Valparaiso flagrantly
failed in their duty to protect our men, and that some of the police
and of the Chilian soldiers and sailors were themselves guilty of
unprovoked assaults upon our sailors before and after arrest. He
[the President] thinks the preponderance of the evidence and
the inherent probabilities lead to the conclusion that Riggin was
killed by the police or soldiers.
"Third. That he [the President] is therefore compelled to bring
the case back to the position taken by this Government in the note
of Mr. Wharton of October 23 last, ... and to ask for a suit[569]able
apology and for some adequate reparation for the injury done
to this Government."
In the same note the attention of the Chilian Government was
called to the offensive character of a note addressed by Mr. Matta,
its Minister of Foreign Affairs, to Mr. Montt, its minister at this
capital, on the 11th ultimo. This despatch was not officially communicated
to this Government; but, as Mr. Montt was directed to
translate it and to give it to the press of this country, it seemed to
me that it could not pass without official notice. It was not only
undiplomatic, but grossly insulting to our naval officers and to the
Executive Department, as it directly imputed untruth and insincerity
to the reports of the naval officers and to the official communications
made by the Executive Department to Congress. It
will be observed that I have notified the Chilian Government that,
unless this note is at once withdrawn and an apology as public as
the offence made, I will terminate diplomatic relations.
The request for the recall of Mr. Egan upon the ground that he
was notpersona gratawas unaccompanied by any suggestion that
could properly be used in support of it, and I infer that the request
is based upon official acts of Mr. Egan which have received the
approval of this Government. But however that may be, I could
not consent to consider such a question until it had first been settled
whether our correspondence with Chili could be conducted
upon a basis of mutual respect.
In submitting these papers to Congress for that grave and patriotic
consideration which the questions involved demand, I desire
to say that I am of the opinion that the demands made of Chili by
this Government should be adhered to and enforced. If the dignity
as well as the prestige and influence of the United States are not to
be wholly sacrificed, we must protect those who, in foreign ports,
display the flag or wear the colors of this Government against insult,
brutality, and death inflicted in resentment of the acts of
their Government, and not for any fault of their own. It has been
my desire in every way to cultivate friendly and intimate relations
with all the governments of this hemisphere. We do not covet
their territory; we desire their peace and prosperity. We look for
no advantage in our relations with them, except the increased
exchanges of commerce upon a basis of mutual benefit. We regret
every civil contest that disturbs their peace and paralyzes their
development, and are always ready to give our good offices for the
restoration of peace. It must, however, be understood that this
Government, while exercising the utmost forbearance toward
weaker powers, will extend its strong and adequate protection to[570]its citizens, to its officers, and to its humblest sailors when made
the victims of wantonness and cruelty in resentment, not of their
personal misconduct, but of the official acts of their Government.
Upon information received that Patrick Shields, an Irishman and
probably a British subject, but at the time a fireman of the American
steamerKeweenaw, in the harbor of Valparaiso for repairs,
had been subjected to personal injuries in that city—largely by
the police—I directed the Attorney-General to cause the evidence
of the officers and crew of that vessel to be taken upon its arrival
in San Francisco; and that testimony is also herewith transmitted.
The brutality and even savagery of the treatment of this poor man
by the Chilian police would be incredible if the evidence of Shields
was not supported by other direct testimony and by the distressing
condition of the man himself when he was finally able to reach his
vessel....
A claim for reparation has been made in behalf of this man,
for while he was not a citizen of the United States, the doctrine
long held by us, as expressed in the Consular Regulations, is "the
principles which are maintained by this Government in regard to
the protection, as distinguished from the relief, of seamen are well
settled. It is held that the circumstance that the vessel is American
is evidence that the seamen on board are such; and in every
regularly documented merchant vessel the crew will find their protection
in the flag that covers them."
I have as yet received no reply to our note of the 21st instant,
but in my opinion I ought not to delay longer to bring these matters
to the attention of Congress for such action as may be deemed
appropriate.
Obvious typographical errors have been corrected. Inconsistent
  spelling and hyphenation in the original document have been
  preserved.